Title: 100+ Reasons #SpaceApps Made a Difference
Date: 2012-04-25 18:05
Author: Nick Skytland
Category: OpenGov
Tags: hackathon, International Space Apps Challenge, Open Data, Open Source, Solutions
Slug: 100-reasons-spaceapps-made-a-difference

The [International Space Apps Challenge][], held on 21-22 April 2012,
was a very productive event.[100+ solutions][] were developed in less
than 48 hours, and although a few teams are still submitting their
solutions to the website, we wanted to provide a summary of the 100+
reasons what you did at the event made a difference! We have listed out
all unique solutions submitted below, in alphabetical order, and
included a one or two sentence elevator-pitch description of each. We
have also included a link to the solution page if you are interested in
finding out more information about the solution, want to view or
download the code, share a comment, contact the team, or in some cases
view a demo or prototype of the solution itself. If you are one of the
participants and would like to improve the description we have for your
project, please email us your updates at
[coreteam@spaceappschallenge.org][].

Each location had the opportunity to nominate up to two winning
solutions for consideration in the Global Judging process. The solutions
thare were nominated are identified as well. *Congratulations* to
everyone who contributed to one of the solutions below - the results
truly speak for themselves.

​1. [3D Printing in Zero Gravity][] ([San Francisco, USA][])

A redesign of current Earth-based 3D printing technology to allow for 3D
printing in zero gravity environments.

​2. [Aeration & Low Temperature Baking][] ([Oxford, United Kingdom][])

An energy efficient, self sufficient process to produce ordinary, fresh
bread with minimal ingredients at lower, safer temperatures in a limited
resource environment.

​3. [Aurora Live][] ([Vancouver, Canada][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that shows aurora intensity, the ISS location and space weather
data using the WebGL globe platform.

​4. [Aurora Project: Model & Data][] ([Dublin, Ireland][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that visualizes near-real time aurora data.

​5. [Autokepler][] ([Virtual][])

A HTML5 generative art experiment to visualize Kepler data.

​6. [Baseline][] ([Stuttgart, Germany][])

A demonstration of how to parse Kepler data into a database to improve
accessibility.

​7. [Beam Be Up To A Satellite! - Space Checkin][] ([Virtual][])

A spaceobject checkin game that visualizes the nearest satellites
overhead and provides points and badges for each check-in.

​8. [Bringing Mathtrax to Modern Web Standards][] ([San Francisco,
USA][])

A prototype of a web-based conversion of MathTrax to improve
accessibility, as well as documentation for how to integrate MathTrax
with the MakerBot 3D printer.

​9. [C.E.R.E.S.][] ([New York City, USA][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A platform that allows farmers in remote areas to seamlessly exchange
commodity price information with their peers, allowing them to make
better-informed decisions.

​10. [Caribbean Fruits][] ([Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app to share and obtain social information on weather conditions,
soil data and crop pricing.

​11. [Climate Change Kenya][] ([Nairobi, Kenya][])

An app that uses satellite data to shows the effects of Climate Change
in Kenya.

​12. [Co-Cupola][] ([Tokyo, Japan][])

A projection of the view Astronauts enjoy from the Cupola Module on the
ISS using a common PC, projector and web-browser.

​13. [Code/Game Controller/Water Sampling Mechanism OpenROV Framework
Development Challenge][] ([San Francisco, USA][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

Further development of the OpenROV platform to build out functionality
for power conditioning, code refactoring, game controller configuration,
water sampler, and vinyl decal.

​14. [Command and Control Protocol for Cubesats][] ([Lausanne,
Switzerland][]) <span style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global
Judging)</span>

The development of a command and control protocol for Cubesats.

​15. [Commonality of NASA Datasets][] ([Adelaide, Australia][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A data schema attempts to capture the commonalities between datasets
acquired by NASA to allow citizen scientists and data mining softwares
to quickly locate relevant datasets required to answer questions posed
in broad terms, such as "Has the sea level risen in the last 10 years?"

​16. [Connect][] ([Tokyo, Japan][])

A web service to connect humans to Earth's magnetic field through the
visualization and social sharing functionality.

​17. [Connect and Survive!][] ([Exeter, United Kingdom][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that provides the next day's pollen count to provide asthmatics
and hay fever suffers information regrinding potential life-threatening
situations.

​18. [Data Majic][] ([Nairobi, Kenya][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

Data majic is a remote data acquisition and control system aimed at
collecting data about a wind turbine. The system monitors the periodic
status of the wind turbine and reports to an SMS server from where the
information can be analyzed and visualized.

​19. [Data Mapping][] ([Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic][])

A solution that translates multiple XML data and map values into
relational database.

​20. [Daily Myths][] ([San Francisco, USA)][San Francisco, USA] <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app to help education the public on common misconceptions regarding
the solar system and astronomy.

​21. [Displaying The Tour][] ([Stuttgart, Germany][])

A Matlab script that displays an orbital tour of planets and is able to
determine the optimal orbit.

​22. [Electronic Foosball Solution][] ([Nairobi, Kenya][])

A solution to display the results of a Foosball game digitally using a
web client, motion sensors and an arduino board. The display can also be
used as a countdown display for anything (such as a rocket launch).

​23. [Enterparty.org][] ([Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic][])

A social network.

​24. [Eturl][] ([Virtual][])

The Extra-Tererstrial Universal Resource Location allows for the
categorization of an object in the solar system, say, a surface feature
on an asteroid, or on the moon, or the voyager spacevraft.

​25. [Exoapi Sydney][] ([Sydney, Australia][])

An app that collates disparate sources of Exoplanet data and provide an
API for access to this data.

​26. [Exoapi.com][] ([New York City, USA][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

ExoAPI is an ongoing project that extends the accessibility of
exoplanetary data by providing an easy to use RESTful API.

​27. [Expanded Meta-Data for NASA Open Data][] ([San Francisco, USA][])

The development of a unified API interface to NASA's data that does not
require specialist knowledge of each data-set to explore.

​28. [Experiment Deployment Capsule][] ([San Francisco, USA][])

An inexpensive, reusable module that can serve as a platform for high
altitude, microgravity experimentation.

​29. [Extremophiles Space Resources for Bio Incubators][] ([Virtual][])

A resource to enhance scientific understanding of adaptive functions of
organisms in space environments to help us be more aware about planetary
life.

​30. [Fragile Oasis Interactive][] ([San Francisco, USA][])

An interactive application that compares side-by-side maps of the
content from the Fragile Oasis website.

​31. [Fragile Oasis Mashup][] ([Lausanne, Switzerland][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A custom user interface to display the data from Fragile Oasis website
in a world map.

​32. [Fragile Oasis Mobile App][] ([Tel Aviv, Israel][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A mobile application to make the Fragile Oasis website more accessible
to the general public.

​33. [Galaxy Sexy][] ([Tokyo, Japan][])

An app that generates a graph of brain waves from a user who is
interacting with space data, using a cheap EEG device, a PC and an
arduino.

​34. [Garbage Collector][] ([Jakarta, Indonesia][])

An app to provide an easy way for citizens to report and to notify
others of garbage piles that are happening in public space by posting
images and descriptions.

​35. [Gcpricer][] ([Nairobi, Kenya][])

A Mobile and Web based application that enables farmers to view and post
current prices of commodities in different locations.

​36. [Growers Nation][] ([Exeter UK][Exeter, United Kingdom], [San
Francisco USA][San Francisco, USA], [New York City USA][New York City,
USA], [Santiago Chile][], [Nairobi Kenya][Nairobi, Kenya] and [Santo
Domingo Dominican Republic][Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that explores the potential of unused land for the growing of
fruit, vegetable and other crops through the use of location, climate
and growing data.

​37. [Growing Together][] [(San Francisco, USA][San Francisco, USA])

The app to reduce the barriers to growing by taking location, climate,
and growing data into consideration and to give people the information
they need when selecting what to grow.

​38. [Hazardmap.info][] ([Exeter, United Kingdom][])

A real-time hazard map application that is powered by social media
observations to help provide a a useful risk assessment for potential
(and actual) crisis situations.

​39. [Hxlator][] ([Jakarta Indonesia][Jakarta, Indonesia] and [Luasanne
Switzerland][Lausanne, Switzerland])

A tool that allows a humanitarian in the field to upload their data in a
way that can be aggregated and queried. The application accepts excel
files of any structure, has a user interface for annotating them, and
converts them to hxl, a format for capturing unstructured semantic data.

​40. [HXL Exporter][] ([Jakarta, Indonesia][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that exports an excel database to the HXL standard.

​41. [Indian Astronomical Calendar][] ([Virtual][])

An app that maps Indian calendar's (panchang) astronomical parameters
for use by amateur astronomers.

​42. [ISSlive API And Limit Notification System][] ([Bangalore,
India][]) <span style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global
Judging)</span>

A native Android and iOS app that implements REST API for ISSLive data
consisting of space station system parameters and crew timeline data.

​43. [Kepler Companion][] ([New York City, USA][])

An app that uses data from Exoplanets.org to visualize the entire set of
confirmed exoplanets as well as provides the relative properties for
each planet and Earth.

​44. [Kepler Confirmed Planets Interactive][] ([Virtual][])

An HTML5/canvas attempt to display Kepler confirmed planets in a simple
3d format.

​45. [Kepler Visualizer][] ([Bangalore, India][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A solution to visualize Kepler data, such as changing star intensity,
using an Arduino.

​46. [Life On Mars Based On Real Life Earth][] ([Virtual][])

An augmented reality app that simulates life in mars based on
geolocalization of the users movement on Earth.

​47. [Linkastar][] ([Tokyo, Japan][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A web application for iOS that allows users to search for a star by
holding iphone or ipad to the night sky if it's cloudy. Includes social
media functionality to share the experience with others.

​48. [Lunar][] ([Oxford, United Kingdom][])

A heatmap visualization of the Moon created by processing a database of
raw altimeter data.

​49. [Lunar Compound][] ([Miami, USA][])

A process to protect concrete Lunar modules from solar heat, radiation
and cosmic rays.

​50. [Lunar Elevator Space Education][] ([Virtual][])

A website for education about Lunar Elevators.

​51. [Lunar Landing App][] ([Vancouver, Canada][])

A lunar landing iOS game.

​52. [Lunar Terrain Roughness Mapper][] ([Tel Aviv, Israel][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that calculates the ideal landing site on the Moon using NASA
Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter and produces a "heat map" that can be
viewed using Google Earth.

​53. [Mobile App for Hirise Mars][] ([Lausanne, Switzerland][])

A mobile web app that allows users on mobile phones and tablets to
browse the very high resolution map images of Mars, and a Web Standards
based platform on top of it for educational/citizen science
applications.

​54. [Mobile Web App in HTML5][] ([Virtual][])

A new version of an HTML5+Javascript web application, to develop plugins
allowing reporting from (almost) any web-enabled device, with and
without Internet connectivity.

​55. [Moon Phase Count][] ([Jakarta, Indonesia][])

An app to visualize the phase of the Moon using java.

​56. [My Travel App][] ([Canberra][] and [Melbourne, Australia][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that uses NASA weather satellite data to bring carbon footprint
computation down to the individual level, allowing trends to be
associated with decisions people make based on weather conditions and
convenience of transportation options.

​57. [NASA Open Data API][] ([Oxford, United Kingdom][])

A preliminary design and schema for a NASA Open Data API to improve
accessibility and a unified interface to NASA datasets without requiring
specialist knowledge.

​58. [NASA-Ex][] ([Virtual][])

An 3d solar system exploration tool that uses C\# ASP.NET MVC3 for a
backend to interface with HORIZON data over telnet, Three.js to do the
WebGL rendering, HTML5 and CSS3.

​59. [Neo Analyzer For Mobile (Ipod/Iphone)][] ([Vancouver, Canada][])

An app that brings website widget interaction and querying of images to
mobile platform so that users can see how the world changes based on
categories of surface temperature, chlorophyll concentration, water
vapor, carbon monoxide concentration, radiation, active fires, snow
cover, cloud fraction, leaf area index, net primary productivity,
population, and vegetation index.

​60. [Open Data Schema][] ([San Francisco, USA][1])

An initial proof of concept of an open data schema extension for the
data.nasa.gov website, to improve accessibility to NASA data.

​61. [Open World Sensor (Openws)][] ([Istanbul, Turkey][])

An app that visualizes sensor data on a world map, using an arduino for
reading sensor data and software for managing and visualizing the data.

​62. [Our Sphere - Portable 3D Data Map Viewer][] ([Tokyo, Japan][])

A Web and Mobile platform widget to share 3D Earth imagery data from
NASA satellites.

​63. [Parsing and Displaying Data From Horizons][] ([Stuttgart,
Germany][])

A script to display and plat data from the Horizons mission, which
demonstrates the calculation of a trajectory of a planet between two
timestamps.

​64. [Patched Cone Approach][] ([Stuttgart, Germany][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A Matlab simulation and approach for a tour of the solar system.

​65. [Pineapple][] ([Santiago, Chile][Santiago Chile])

A web and mobile app that filters a tropical crop database by location's
Rainfall, latitude, elevation and pH.

​66. [Planet Finder][] ([San Francisco, USA][])

This software improves accessibility to Kelper exoplanets data by
allowing users to search for starts using a simple http GET string that
returns data in both machine and human readable format.

​67. [Planet Hopper][] ([Oxford, United Kingdom][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that visualizes Kepler data to allow children and teachers to
explore all the exoplanets that we know about.

​68. [Planet Pong][] ([San Francisco, USA][1])

A distance-free virtual game of ping-pong that can be played between
Astronauts in space and citizens on Earth, using mobile devices.

​69. [Possible PHP Command Encoder][] ([Stuttgart, Germany][])

A php command encoder that utilizes standardized commands and provides
access to a databases through one main command prompt.

​70. [Predict The Sky - Cross-Platform Mobile Client][]
([Oxford][Oxford, United Kingdom] and [Exeter, United Kingdom][])

An app that combines ISS, HST and weather forecast data for a specified
location to inform people about what they'll be able to see in the night
sky.

​71. [Predict The Sky SMS][] ([New York City, USA][])

Predict the Sky SMS is a text message service for satellite enthusiast
that tracks satellite events and sends the user a SMS message when one
is visible from your location on Earth as it's happening.

​72. [Roach Rover][] ([Nairobi, Kenya][])

An arduino based rover that avoids obstacles by sensing how much light
is reflected off the obstacle.

​73. [Satellite Data Correlation Tool][] ([Sydney, Australia][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app to visualize the growth in electrification and population across
the globe, using night-time lighting from satellite data across a region
as a proxy.

​74. [Sky Map App Layer Addition, Exoplanets][] [(San Francisco,
USA][1])

Integration of code for an exoplanet layer into Google Sky Map app for
Android, which includes search function and the ability to add
additional multimedia features.

​75. [Social Hazard][] ([Santiago, Chile][Santiago Chile])

An app that analyzes twitter trends to find global risk and crisis
events and visualizes them on a world map in real time.

​76. [Solar Wind Graph][] ([Virtual][])

A desktop client that takes solar wind speed live from the web and
produces an animation of the current wind speeds. The same feed is also
used by an Arduino to show the live intensity of the solar winds by
lighting more lights the more intense the winds.

​77. [Sonic Telescope][] ([Oxford, United Kingdom][])

An app that investigates sounds of space, by using the azimuth, altitude
and proximity of a mobile phone to calculate various celestial sounds.

​78. [Sounds of Space][] ([Virtual][])

An app that uses the built-in microphone on the Nexus Android phone to
create a high fidelity audio recording of the sound during the 90 minute
mission.

​79. [Space Debris Cleanup][] ([Virtual][])

A poster to serve as a Public Service Announcement raise awareness of
the risks associated with the growing space debris problem.

​80. [Space Ring Design App][] ([Tokyo, Japan][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

Jewelry created using the location of a planet in space on a desired
date and time.

​81. [Spatium Quaestionrium][] ([Vancouver, Canada][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A cross-platform quiz web app, to test, inform and correction
misconceptions kids may have about space.

​82. [Star-Tweeting Bangle!][] ([Exeter, United Kingdom][])

Social data-connected jewelry that lights up based on twitter trends.

​83. [Strange Desk][] ([Oxford, United Kingdom][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that allows users to socially share and analyize the occurrence
of strange events with others.

​84. [The Application Of "A View From Space][]" [(Tokyo, Japan][Tokyo,
Japan])

An app that restricts a shared social media stream based on the orbit of
the ISS in order to provide a common viewpoint and build a community
around space data based on location.

​85. [The ISSduck][] ([Exeter, United Kingdom][])

A physical demonstration of the relative position of the International
Space Station using an "ISSDuck" printed on a 3D printer, that floats on
water, which is disrupted through a rudder controlled by an arduino and
servo motor.

​86. [The Optimal Lunar Landing Analysis][] ([Lausanne, Switzerland][])

A cross-platform app to process multiple lunar data sets and analysis
strategies in order to find optimal landing sites for spacecrafts.

​87. [Transview][] ([Virtual][])

A low cost, low data-rate camera system system for SERVIR that uses a
web camera and micro-controller interface.

​88. [Travelisa][] ([Jakarta, Indonesia][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An application to keep track of an individual’s travel history,
distance, and methods and determine the impact it has on the individual
as well as in wider community.

​89. [Tripping NASA][] ([Vancouver, Canada][])

A social app that maps ground and satellite data on google maps.

​90. [Tweetsat][] ([Virtual][])

A program that allows a satellite to tweet from space.

​91. [Ufahamu][] ([Nairobi, Kenya][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

A crowd sourcing platform that creates awareness for health related
issues in Kenya and aims to improve productivity of end-users while
minimizing labor and research expenses.

​92. [Vicar2PNG][] ([Virtual][])

An app that allows anyone to view, enjoy, and remix NASA's mission image
data easily by converting VICAR files to the popular PNG image format.

​93. [Visualisations of Space Data][] ([Oxford, United Kingdom][])

An app that animates current solar wind speed, taken live from the web,
using an Arduino to visualize the live intensity of the solar winds
through lights.

​94. [Watch Out - Hazard Map][] ([Melbourne, Australia][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that harvests and analyses real time hazard data from social
media e.g. Twitter and provides a user friendly web based visualization
of the data.

​95. [Webcam Approach][] ([Stuttgart, Germany][]) <span
style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that calculates the average BGR value of an image useing a
logitech c920 and python code.

​96. [Web Page for NASA Planetary Data System][] ([Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic][])

A new web interface to improve accessibility to the NASA Planetary Data
System.

​98. [Wet (Water Evaluation Tool)][] ([Miami, Florida][Miami, USA])
<span style="color: #ff0000;">(Nominated for Global Judging)</span>

An app that centralizes Landsat5TM and available water stage and
precipitation data and displays the output on a map.

​98. [Where In The Solar System][] ([Melbourne, Australia][])

A concept for an educational iPad app that allows users to explore space
through touch gestures.

​99. [World Weather Symbols][] ([Exeter, United Kingdom][])

Digital representations of common meteorological weather symbols, which
are currently not offered in a re-usable digital format.

​100. [Worldatnight.org][] [(San Francisco, USA][1])

World At Night is a tool that intends to show WHO on planet earth has
access to light. Its data visualization allows anyone to see the state
of the world today, in terms of access to electricity.

​101. [Ze-Api (French For "The API")][] ([Nairobi, Kenya][])

An API that converts inaccessible NASA data into popular formats used by
developers, by converting Json data XML, YAML and a better structured
JSON data.

  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [100+ solutions]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/solutions/
  [coreteam@spaceappschallenge.org]: coreteam@spaceappschallenge.org
  [3D Printing in Zero Gravity]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/space-based-3d-printing-platform/solution/157
  [San Francisco, USA]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/techshop
  [Aeration & Low Temperature Baking]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/bakerfaire/solution/43
  [Oxford, United Kingdom]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/isic
  [Aurora Live]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/predict-sky/solution/107
  [Vancouver, Canada]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/network-hub
  [Aurora Project: Model & Data]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/aurora-layer-google-earth/solution/136
  [Dublin, Ireland]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/tog
  [Autokepler]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/open-data-challenge-kepler/solution/50
  [Virtual]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/virtual-participation
  [Baseline]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/open-data-challenge-kepler/solution/80
  [Stuttgart, Germany]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/shackspace
  [Beam Be Up To A Satellite! - Space Checkin]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/solutions-unposted-challenges/solution/122
  [Bringing Mathtrax to Modern Web Standards]: Bringing%20Mathtrax%20To%20Modern%20Web%20Standards
  [C.E.R.E.S.]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/commodities-pricing-tool-rural-communities/solution/89
  [New York City, USA]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/pivotal-labs
  [Caribbean Fruits]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/pineapple-project/solution/116
  [Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/itla
  [Climate Change Kenya]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/climate-adaptation/solution/127
  [Nairobi, Kenya]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/ihub
  [Co-Cupola]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/solutions-unposted-challenges/solution/151
  [Tokyo, Japan]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/university-of-tokyo
  [Code/Game Controller/Water Sampling Mechanism OpenROV Framework
  Development Challenge]: Code/Game%20Controller/Water%20Sampling%20Mechanism%20OpenROV%20Framework%20Development%20challenge
  [Command and Control Protocol for Cubesats]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/new-command-and-control-protocol-cubesats/solution/71
  [Lausanne, Switzerland]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/swiss-space-center
  [Commonality of NASA Datasets]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/create-semantic-data-descriptor-file/solution/7
  [Adelaide, Australia]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/flinders-university-centre-science-education
  [Connect]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/magnetic-field-line/solution/64
  [Connect and Survive!]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/welovedata-challenge/solution/37
  [Exeter, United Kingdom]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/met-office
  [Data Majic]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nairobi-robotics/solution/14
  [Data Mapping]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/exoapi/solution/73
  [Daily Myths]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/visualize-all-too-common-astronomysolar-system-mis/solution/101
  [Displaying The Tour]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/tour-solar-system/solution/88
  [Electronic Foosball Solution]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nairobi-robotics/solution/23
  [Enterparty.org]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/earth-day-space-data-planet/solution/125
  [Eturl]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/earth-day-space-data-planet/solution/62
  [Exoapi Sydney]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/exoapi/solution/8
  [Sydney, Australia]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/school-computer-science-and-engineering-university
  [Exoapi.com]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/exoapi/solution/86
  [Expanded Meta-Data for NASA Open Data]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/preliminary-design-open-data-api/solution/94
  [Experiment Deployment Capsule]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/suborbital-payload-citizen-science-exposed-space/solution/124
  [Extremophiles Space Resources for Bio Incubators]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/earth-day-space-data-planet/solution/5
  [Fragile Oasis Interactive]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/fragile-oasis-map-difference/solution/170
  [Fragile Oasis Mashup]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/fragile-oasis-map-difference/solution/150
  [Fragile Oasis Mobile App]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/fragile-oasis-map-difference/solution/3
  [Tel Aviv, Israel]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/garagegeeks
  [Galaxy Sexy]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/solutions-unposted-challenges/solution/138
  [Garbage Collector]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/mobile-environment-mapping/solution/121
  [Jakarta, Indonesia]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/at-america
  [Gcpricer]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/commodities-pricing-tool-rural-communities/solution/45
  [Growers Nation]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/growers-nation/solution/34
  [Santiago Chile]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/catholic-university-santiago
  [Growing Together]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/pineapple-project/solution/162
  [Hazardmap.info]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/hazardmap-real-time-hazard-mapping-scraping-social/solution/33
  [Hxlator]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/information-sharing-humanitarian-crisis-response/solution/130
  [HXL Exporter]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/information-sharing-humanitarian-crisis-response/solution/115
  [Indian Astronomical Calendar]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/solutions-unposted-challenges/solution/174
  [ISSlive API And Limit Notification System]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/isslive-challenges/solution/129
  [Bangalore, India]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/centre-internet-and-society
  [Kepler Companion]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/open-data-challenge-kepler/solution/96
  [Kepler Confirmed Planets Interactive]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/open-data-challenge-kepler/solution/48
  [Kepler Visualizer]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/open-data-challenge-kepler/solution/139
  [Life On Mars Based On Real Life Earth]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/augmented-reality-alien-skies/solution/126
  [Linkastar]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/space-geosocial-app/solution/46
  [Lunar]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/optimal-lunar-landing-sites/solution/51
  [Lunar Compound]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/solutions-unposted-challenges/solution/155
  [Miami, USA]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/engineering-center
  [Lunar Elevator Space Education]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/solutions-unposted-challenges/solution/63
  [Lunar Landing App]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/optimal-lunar-landing-sites/solution/109
  [Lunar Terrain Roughness Mapper]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/optimal-lunar-landing-sites/solution/181
  [Mobile App for Hirise Mars]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nasa-planetary-data-system-interface/solution/128
  [Mobile Web App in HTML5]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/offline-online-problem/solution/70
  [Moon Phase Count]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/predict-sky/solution/149
  [My Travel App]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/my-travel-impact/solution/57
  [Canberra]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/anu
  [Melbourne, Australia]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/vssec
  [NASA Open Data API]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/preliminary-design-open-data-api/solution/52
  [NASA-Ex]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nasa-planetary-data-system-interface/solution/61
  [Neo Analyzer For Mobile (Ipod/Iphone)]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/html5-app-access-nasa-earth-observations-website/solution/106
  [Open Data Schema]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/preliminary-design-open-data-api/solution/103
  [1]: HXL%20Exporter
  [Open World Sensor (Openws)]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/handheld-hardware-citizen-science/solution/82
  [Istanbul, Turkey]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/base-istanbul-hackerspace
  [Our Sphere - Portable 3D Data Map Viewer]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/our-sphere/solution/10
  [Parsing and Displaying Data From Horizons]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nasa-planetary-data-system-interface/solution/84
  [Patched Cone Approach]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/tour-solar-system/solution/175
  [Pineapple]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/pineapple-project/solution/159
  [Planet Finder]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/exoapi/solution/83
  [Planet Hopper]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/open-data-challenge-kepler/solution/47
  [Planet Pong]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/solutions-unposted-challenges/solution/104
  [Possible PHP Command Encoder]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/preliminary-design-open-data-api/solution/72
  [Predict The Sky - Cross-Platform Mobile Client]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/predict-sky/solution/44
  [Predict The Sky SMS]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/predict-sky/solution/102
  [Roach Rover]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nairobi-robotics/solution/153
  [Satellite Data Correlation Tool]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/satellite-imagery-assess-rural-electrification/solution/12
  [Sky Map App Layer Addition, Exoplanets]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/open-data-challenge-kepler/solution/160
  [Social Hazard]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/hazardmap-real-time-hazard-mapping-scraping-social/solution/69
  [Solar Wind Graph]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/welovedata-challenge/solution/53
  [Sonic Telescope]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/space-geosocial-app/solution/38
  [Sounds of Space]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/phonesat-android-apps-space/solution/2
  [Space Debris Cleanup]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/earth-day-space-data-planet/solution/161
  [Space Ring Design App]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/artistic-data-materialization-beyond-visualization/solution/42
  [Spatium Quaestionrium]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/visualize-all-too-common-astronomysolar-system-mis/solution/141
  [Star-Tweeting Bangle!]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/welovedata-challenge/solution/36
  [Strange Desk]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/mobile-environment-mapping/solution/49
  [The Application Of "A View From Space]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/view-space/solution/11
  [The ISSduck]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/welovedata-challenge/solution/35
  [The Optimal Lunar Landing Analysis]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/optimal-lunar-landing-sites/solution/59
  [Transview]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/servir-open-hardware-camera-project/solution/173
  [Travelisa]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/my-travel-impact/solution/140
  [Tripping NASA]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/ham-beacon-hacks/solution/105
  [Tweetsat]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/phonesat-android-apps-space/solution/65
  [Ufahamu]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/fragile-oasis-map-difference/solution/60
  [Vicar2PNG]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nasa-planetary-data-system-interface/solution/120
  [Visualisations of Space Data]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/welovedata-challenge/solution/40
  [Watch Out - Hazard Map]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/hazardmap-real-time-hazard-mapping-scraping-social/solution/24
  [Webcam Approach]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/brightest-night/solution/132
  [Web Page for NASA Planetary Data System]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/nasa-planetary-data-system-interface/solution/187
  [Wet (Water Evaluation Tool)]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/satellite-based-estimation-watershed-level-evapotr/solution/134
  [Where In The Solar System]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/where-fleet/solution/133
  [World Weather Symbols]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/weather-symbols/solution/39
  [Worldatnight.org]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/satellite-imagery-assess-rural-electrification/solution/98
  [Ze-Api (French For "The API")]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/preliminary-design-open-data-api/solution/17
