Title: No title [4019]
Date: 2011-07-27 09:05
Author: nskytlan
Slug: 4019

About Open Government [caption id="attachment\_2874" align="alignnone"
width="170" caption="The Hubble Space Telescope captured the swirling
galaxies of Arp 194, which forms this cosmic question mark."][/caption]
NASA is expanding transparency, participation, and collaboration and
creating a new level of openness and accountability. We are focusing on
embedding open government into three integrated aspects of our
operations—policy, technology, and culture. Whether NASA is using social
networks to allow students to interact directly with astronauts, or
creating a Cloud Computing Platform to give unprecedented access to
scientific data, we have embraced the Open Government Directive.
Highlights of NASA’s Open Government Activities NASA’s founding
legislation in 1958 instructed NASA to “…provide for the widest
practicable and appropriate dissemination of information…” The
principles of open government have been embedded in our operations for
50+ years. We recognize that open government is a process rather than a
product, and have taken a continuous-learning approach. NASA’s Open
Government activities span 22 identified Agency projects across the
centers, and 3 flagship initiatives will take the Initiative to a new
level: Policy: NASA is working to make open source software development
more collaborative at NASA to benefit both the Agency and the public.
Technology: NASA Nebula, as the government’s first…
