Title: 7 tips to effectively communicate with the next generation
Date: 2011-12-04 02:00
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Slug: 7-tips-to-effectively-communicate-with-the-next-generation

Educators from all over the country came together this past week for the
NASA Education Stakeholder’s Summit in Chantilly, Virginia to talk about
future education initiatives and workforce development.  I was invited
by the organizers to share a few thoughts on how to effectively
communicate with the next generation. I’ve included the presentation
below but also provided a summary with more context.  Not everything in
the presentation is covered because otherwise this post would be even
longer then it already is, so if you have questions please feel free to
contact me.

<p>
<script src="http://speakerdeck.com/embed/4edb06faaabc6c004d003a67.js"></script>
</p>
**On Generations**

Historians [Neil Howe and William Strauss][] have constructed a great
way of looking at generations.  In their book, *[Generations: The
History of America's Future, 1584 to 2069][],*published in 1991, they
describe a four generational archetypes that repeat throughout
Anglo-American history over the past 500 years with only one exception.
The theory is very useful tool for anyone who is looking to better
understand the younger generations and their world.

As Strauss and Howe explain, “*your generation isn’t like the generation
that shaped you, but it has much in common with the generation that
shaped the generation that shaped you*.” For example, Boomers (whose
strength is individualism, culture and values) raised Millennial (Gen Y)
children (whose strength is in collective civic action).  The theory
helps us understand the interaction between generations.  As Boomers
replace the Silent as elder leaders, they reject caution and compromise
and act on moral absolutes. As Gen X replaces Boomers in midlife, they
will apply a new pragmatic survivalism to management decisions. As
Millennials replaces Gen X in young adulthood, they will revitalize
community, social discipline, and public purpose.

So what about the generation after the Millennials? Who are they?

Strauss and Howe originally called this next generation the “*Silent
Echo*” generation because history suggests that they will most resemble
the Silent Generation that came before the Boomers (they now refer to
them as the Homeland Generation).  Personally, I like to refer to them
as “true digital natives” given they are the first generation to come of
age fully immersed in digital technology. Strauss and Howe define the
next generation as people who were born at the turn of the century, but
the dates are not certain when it comes to this work, and I’d argue that
this generation really started in 1996.  Why this is so important is
that the first wave of true digital natives – people who were born after
the invention of the internet and have been immersed in digital
technology their entire lives – are now 16 years old.  They may already
be applying to your High School internship programs and will be entering
college and the workforce in the next couple of years.

According to the theory, true digital natives are people who were born
during a time when great danger and crisis cut down social and political
complexity in favor of public consensus, aggressive, institutions, and
an ethic of personal sacrifice.  That sure sounds a lot like the world
students are experiencing today.  If history is any indicator of the
future, this will be a generation that grows up overprotected by adults
preoccupied with the crisis, come of age as the socialized and
conformist young adults of a post-crisis world, break out as
process-oriented midlife leaders during an awakening, age into
thoughtful post-awakening elders, and be remembered for their quite
years of rising adulthood and midlife years of flexible,
consensus-building leadership.

The main message of the talk at the NASA Education Stakeholder’s Summit
was to raise awareness of the true digital native generation *– the one
AFTER Generation Y*.  Of course, the whole idea of a “generation” is
really an over simplification.  Although useful to describe a group of
people who share a common place in time and who have experienced similar
formative events, it doesn’t describe everybody.  Generational boundary
lines are hard to define and often blur into each other. I know many
“Digital Natives” who acknowledge they are simply stuck in a “Baby
Boomer” body and can run circles around their younger counterparts.  
However, the simplification is a useful place to start when talking
about how to communicate effectively to a broad audience and is
particularly relevant in terms of educational initiatives focused at
engaging a younger generation.

**How to Reach Digital Natives**

The talk highlighted 7 tips, based on some fundamental truths, that will
help you engage the true digital native generation in your
organization’s mission.

7.  **Understand the audience**– Even though they have a lot in common,
the next generation is not Generation Y.  This is a generation that is
growing up in a time when the individualism, risk-taking, and
conspicuous consumption of the previous generations is winding down. 
The environment they know is one of a new sobriety fueled by unpaid
debts and unmet challenges, both home and abroad.  Unfairly or not, this
generation will deal head on with a crisis they inherited from others
before them.  What will their formative events during their childhood
be?  How will it shape them?  What role does technology play in it all?

6.  **Listen to the conversation –** If “forty-five percent of time
spent communicating is listening” and “seventy-five percent of
communication is non-verbal," the next step may simply be to pause and
listen to the conversation.  What communities are they a part of? How do
they use the channels? When do they use the channels?  You can’t
communicate if you are not part of the conversation, and you won’t be
invited back to the conversation if you never take time to listen to
what is being discussed.

5.  **Challenge the norms** - While the web is all about authentic,
transparent, and participatory conversations that enables the viral
spread of your content, industrial age organizations such as government
are often driven by a hierarchical culture of fear that leads to tight
control of messages and public image.  We often respond to request to
participate in a conversation with a statement like “no comment goes
online without our explicit approval.”  That approach won’t make you
many friends in the digital age.  Real engagement is when people do
things for you that you didn‘t ask them to. Learn to lose control – in
return for greater reach.

4.  **Embrace technology** - Government agencies tend to use a «pull»
mentality – building destination sites in the belief that people will
find them and stay if they‘re interested.  We think that the best use of
our resources would be to duplicate an already existing online platform
in the name of security, protection, or efficiency.  Why compete with
someone else who is doing what you are trying to do a million times
better?  Instead, unleash the community that is already out there by
becoming a hub, that incentivizes anyone to share relevant information,
and then aggregates and pushes out the best channel on all available
channels to the broadest audience possible.

3**.  Be interesting and unique**.  Once you make the plunge and join
the conversation, strive to be interesting and unique.  With so many
conversations going on at once, and so many different communication
channels connecting diverse communities, a good way to fail quickly is
to offer boring, static content with no personality.  Simply feeding an
RSS feed into a Twitter account isn’t good enough.  Instead of trying to
influence your audience, inspire them.  Share a personal, compelling
story about your organization and create an opportunity to include the
audience in the adventure.

2.  **Create real opportunities to participate**– People want to
participate.  They want to fly in space themselves, they want to drive
the Mars Rover, they want to be part of the design process.  Technology
enables this more then ever before so create opportunities to engage
citizens in your organizations mission.  People get behind something
they helped build.

1**.  Think 10 years ahead** - The way we do business, the way we
communicate and the way we work, will all change dramatically in the
next 10 years (maybe sooner).  Think ahead.  Envision the future. 
Create environments for your employees that they will flock to.  If you
are serious about focusing on engaging the next generation, stop
thinking about how we do things today. How do people use technology when
computers are simply cheap, portable browsers and connectivity is not
longer an issue? How do people communicate when email is no longer used?
How do people collaborate when everything is stored online and
organizations no longer "own" their technology.

The world is changing fast and you simply can’t afford not to. As an
organization, as a leader, and as a mentor to the next generation, be
intentional about creating opportunities for them to participate. 
Effectively communicating is an essential first step.  Be a government
in beta. One that takes appropriate risks, that challenges the status
quo, and that is excited about creating a future we can’t even imagine
is possible.  That’s the type of organization people are attracted to.

  [Neil Howe and William Strauss]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strauss_and_Howe
  [Generations: The History of America's Future, 1584 to 2069]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generations_(book)
