A Galactic Experiment in Participatory Exploration
##################################################
:date: 2013-04-16 00:16
:author: nskytlan
:category: OpenGov
:slug: a-galactic-experiment-in-participatory-exploration

In 2007 (which seems like so long ago now), 16 young engineers,
technologists and scientists at NASA came together to write a `paper`_
(PDF link) about the role of “\ *participatory exploration*\ ”. Our goal
was to influence NASA senior leadership to adopt a more participatory,
collaborative and transparent approach to the way government does
business, and to proactively engage citizens to help address the many
challenges facing the Agency. We were young, passionate and convinced
that if the space agency we loved truly wanted to remain relevant to the
world around us, we had to start thinking about things differently.

In that paper we made many great points that still resonate with me
today. Here are a few that stand out:

#. Participatory exploration allows citizens from outside the NASA
   workforce, as well as within, to contribute in meaningful ways to
   their space program.
#. Participatory exploration creates a mechanism for NASA to engage
   non-traditional audiences and to leverage the diversity and volume of
   this talent in tangible and meaningful ways.
#. Participatory exploration is critical for sourcing new ideas, solving
   difficult problems, and executing the Agency’s mission more
   efficiently.
#. Collaborative web technologies can enhance participatory exploration
   initiatives by scaling participation and focusing the development of
   solutions on relevant real world challenges.
#. NASA’s public image, and its ability to return value to taxpayers,
   would benefit immensely from leveraging user-generated content,
   fostering online collaboration, and publishing content consistently
   and openly.
#. Participatory exploration can help NASA address some of its most
   pressing challenges, including the changing demographics of the
   workforce, the effects of globalization, the need to keep pace with
   accelerating technological innovations, flagging public interest in
   NASA’s work, and the need to accomplish an increasingly audacious
   mission with increasingly limited resources.

At the heart of participatory exploration is the basic assumption that
to truly accomplish the impossible task NASA is given, we have to
develop new ways to enlist citizens everywhere to contribute their time,
talent and creativity to help us solve the grand challenges of our time.
This is especially true in times of shrinking budgets, constrained
resources and increasing demands for a more open and transparent
government.

Six years ago we could have never predicted how much the world would
change in such a short amount of time. Of the 16 co-authors, only 5 work
still at NASA today. The idea of instituting an office for citizen
engagement or participatory exploration at NASA, as recommended in the
paper, was born and then died almost immediately on the vine. Yet, there
has been some forward progress. There still exists a core group at NASA
who hold firmly to the goal of opening up the space program to everyone.
We press forward with a deep conviction that NASA must innovate on how
we innovate and focus on developing technologies that advance humanity
into space while more directly involving citizens in developing the
solutions. We stubbornly believe that participatory exploration
initiatives are invaluable to our future – a future that will be defined
by the hackers, engineers, technologists, scientists, designers,
artists, educators, and entrepreneurs that will create it.

It’s not only about inspiring the next generation of explorers, its
about inspiring today’s scientists and engineers as well – all those
brilliant rocket scientists who temporarily put their dream to work for
the space program on hold for whatever reason and are ready and willing
to contribute if someone would just ask them.

We’ve spent a lot of time thinking about how best to engage as many
people as possible in space exploration and in just 4 days, we will hold
our largest experiment in participatory exploration ever. This weekend,
more then 6,000 people and 330 organizations from around the world will
come together in 83 cities across 42 countries, as well as online, to
engage directly in their space program through the International Space
Apps Challenge. The event – *which will literally be the largest
hackathon ever attempted* - is the culmination of months of planning,
years of experimentation and thousands and thousands of hours of hard
work by hundreds of people across the globe who share in the excitement
of building our collective future. It is a shining example that
participatory exploration is not only alive and well at NASA, but
evolving based on your direct contributions and feedback.

Our space program, more then ever, requires the active engagement of the
public to co-create our future. Thank you to all of you who are so
selflessly contributing your time, energy and talents and working with
others to develop new solutions to our toughest challenges Thank you to
those of you who will work with others to hack, build, invent, and remix
data, software and hardware all in the name of creating new technology
to improve life on Earth and life in space. This weekend will
demonstrate the true potential of participatory exploration and what can
happen when a government agency like NASA takes a chance on engaging the
untapped, unexpected, and uncharted know-how of thousands of passionate
citizens around the world.

.. _paper: http://www.opennasa.com/wp-content/documents/PE_Recommendations.pdf
