A Lesson in Social Media Innovation
###################################
:date: 2011-10-26 01:19
:author: nskytlan
:category: OpenGov
:slug: a-lesson-in-social-media-innovation

There has been a lot of talk about the need for developing social media
policies within government, but little talk about how best to
effectively COMMUNICATE the policy once all the work has been done.
Organizations spend month – even years – discussing, debating, writing,
editing, and reviewing their social media policy before it’s published
for all to see. The end result is usually a PDF document or static
webpage that is rarely viewed by the intended audience. Logically, this
makes sense to us – it’s the way we’ve always done things in government.
Why would we do things any differently?

But, imagine if you could do things differently! Why does your social
media policy (or any policy you develop for that matter) have to be a
PDF document on a website? What if you didn’t expect your audience to
download and read a 2000-word document and actually used social media to
communicate your message? What if the way you communicated your policy
was actually engaging?

The Department of Justice in Victoria, Australia is an organization that
really gets what social media is all about. After countless hours
developing their own `policy`_, they modeled what it looks like to be a
cutting edge Gov2.0 agency and used social media to communicate their
social media policy! Instead of expecting their staff to read a black
and white document, they produced an amazingly engaging (and colorful)
short video that explains the key elements of their social media policy.

It’s truly inspiring.

I had a chance to listen to `Patrick McCormick`_, who is the General
Manager of Online Collaboration and Digital Engagement in the Strategic
Communication Branch of the Department of Justice in Victoria, talk
about this video and what else they are working on. They are really
innovating on the way business is done in government. I encourage you to
check it out for yourself and listen to this `Podcast`_ with Patrick
McCormick where he discusses his views on how the Department of Justice
Victoria transformed an internal training video into a YouTube success
with over 32,000 views and what he has to say about Gov 2.0 Strategies.

.. _policy: http://www.justice.vic.gov.au/socialmedia
.. _Patrick McCormick: http://www.gov2.com.au/2011/speakers/patrick-mccormick
.. _Podcast: http://www.gov2.com.au/2011/podcasts
