Title: A Successful Trip to Mars with artist Tom Sachs
Date: 2012-08-06 12:22
Author: Katy Jeremko
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Art, design, exploration, technology
Slug: a-successful-trip-to-mars-with-artist-tom-sachs

Recently, I had the opportunity to chat with installation artist and
space enthusiast Tom Sachs. By recreating great cultural motifs out of
basic materials such as foam-core, plywood, and hot glue, Sachs
juxtaposes exterior appearance against internal value. His work, both
playful and ironic, demonstrates current trends in the ways that we
communicate, the ways in which we consume, and how “sexy” space can be.

Sachs’ most recent work, “Space Program: Mars” is a compelling exhibit,
which upon first glance is seamlessly real. However, it’s construction
isn’t hidden - it’s purposely assembled out of plywood, screws, and
glue. This work stands for itself. Inherent to space imagery,
exploration is naturally occurring beauty. Sachs installation art
demonstrates that invaluable quality. He notes that we’re growing up in
times where visual stimuli can border exploitation. However, imagery of
space exploration is unconditionally breath-taking and sexy. He states,
“the reason that we go to Mars, the Moon, or Europa is for the idea of
exploration”. While making another place our “home” is far from the
tangible reality, we should be placing effort towards more physically
substantial programs.

Not only is Sachs’ perspective demonstrated through this recent exhibit,
but so much more of his voice has been documented through the various
projects he’s had his hands in. Bridging underground cult-phenomenons
with lo-tech production processes, Sachs asserts that there is a
precious parameter in simplicity. He stresses that we live in a world of
conveniences, which allow us “an ask away from knowing anything”, while
polluting our environments with technology too opaque to understand and
use. To navigate these specialized sectors in human development, we need
to question how to use the machine to help our hearts. We’ve found so
many useful reasons to incorporate technology into our lives at a
personal level, and it’s opened the world up a little, we need to answer
the “so-what” behind our modernization.

Between 2009 and 2012, Sachs set out to testify the tenants of reuse,
repair, and durability over those attached to mass production. As a
culture, we have come to accept products that live a short lifetime.
Inherent to the materials they are produced out of, the things that we
use should become better with time, such as leather and plywood. While
mass-production affords us a “useful strategy” and offers the chance of
some recyclability, we should be looking to objects to have “long-term
strength”. Working in conjunction with Nike, Sachs developed the “Mars
Yard Shoe”. Sachs approached the project from an angle beyond
expectation : he conceived the athletic end-user as a mechanical
engineer. This shoe disrupts the market through the story it yields.
Many more designed objects can be found [here][], as Sachs designed a
series of things to serve this purpose. Through his intention of repair,
reuse, and strength, these objects personify the future that Sachs
believes we could seek.

By building suspense, destroying our expectations, and valuing women
through technology, Sachs is identifying the audience as the voyeur. In
his work, the “worm” font from early NASA years pops up continuously,
providing a visceral and nostalgic emotion to a captive audience. We
watch, we wait, we listen, and digest. In understanding that there is a
pluralism in the greatness of all things, Sachs’ work serves to call
attention to our disposable environments. Not only does his work
capitalize on construction material, but it also proves that the
internet is the vehicle for distribution and consumption. We are able to
multi-task in a flash, sourcing images which is part of a “bigger field
to connect our minds” on a “telepathic” level.

This is space through the eyes of a conscious, heart-driven, and
talented arteur. His work not only manifests the breadth of various
generations, but it also highlights the importance of valuable
resources, the sex-appeal of space, and the significance of a sci-fi
writer’s dream.

Discover Tom Sachs: <http://tomsachs.org/works>

Video work by Van Neistat, of Sachs‘ installation pieces :
<http://www.tenbullets.com/>

An interactive book of Sachs’ project “NIKECRAFT” :
<http://nikecraft.com/>

<p>
<object width="640" height="360" classid="clsid:d27cdb6e-ae6d-11cf-96b8-444553540000" codebase="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,40,0">
<param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always"></param><param name="src" value="http://www.youtube.com/v/e-jSSTGqU5c?version=3&amp;hl=en_US"></param><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"></param>

<embed width="640" height="360" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" src="http://www.youtube.com/v/e-jSSTGqU5c?version=3&amp;hl=en_US" allowfullscreen="true" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true">
</embed>
</object>
  

</p>
*Caption :*

*Produced in the “Energies and Skills” series, “Space Camp” (2012) is a
study of the self and a creation of Sachs’ beautiful space mission. His
perspective, both fresh and whimsical directs our attention towards
managing things with great care and efficiency. Directed by Van Neistat,
envisioned by Tom Sachs. All image credits Tom Sachs. *

* *

[![Sachs 1][]][]

[![Sachs 2][]][]

  [here]: http://nikecraft.com/
  [Sachs 1]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/547642_459665284062009_2054526710_n.jpeg
    "Sachs 1"
  [![Sachs 1][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/547642_459665284062009_2054526710_n.jpeg
  [Sachs 2]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/76735_167892043239336_2732602_n.jpeg
    "Sachs 2"
  [![Sachs 2][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/76735_167892043239336_2732602_n.jpeg
