Add me on
#########
:date: 2013-06-01 14:47
:author: khozeinkj
:category: OpenGov
:slug: add-me-on

At openNASA, we fulfill our mission by helping you pursue your own.

For the USDA, this mission included raising awareness about the
viability of hyper-local agriculture, specifically in but not limited to
the United States. They accomplished this by creating the Backyard
Poultry Farmer challenge. The concept was simple: by promoting localized
agriculture - such as a chicken farm in one's backyard - the USDA hoped
to revolutionize a system in which healthier food would become more
viable to greater numbers of people. The challenge had thus been set,
and all they needed now was a team that would champion it, the pioneers
to give it the renown it deserved.

Enter Bulgaria with the ChicksBook team.

The story of ChicksBook begins with a company called ISG Technology. In
the summer of 2012, Atanas Keranov began work at ISG Tech as a junior
net developer, where he met Pavel Kolev, a two-year veteran of the
company and fellow net developer. Hitting it off, the pair decided to
test their new-found creative chemistry by entering in a Bulgarian
programming competition organized by Telerik Academy and PC Magazine, as
the two-person team KeyDown. KeyDown went on in that competition to win
two out of the three rounds they competed in.

Coming fresh from this successful run, Keranov and Kolev decided to try
their hands at Space Apps 2013. However, they knew from their experience
in the Bulgarian competition that they needed specialists on the graphic
design and web development front if they were to successfully create
their app in time. So, the duo opened up their team to the applications
of any graphic designer who shared their enthusiasm for the concept of
Space Apps and their willingness to work almost for free. Thus, they
found Stoyan Ivanov, who ended up participating in the challenge only
virtually. However, this did not stop Ivanov later from almost
single-handedly creating the design for the ChicksBook website and app
in just two days.

To ensure that they would have a working model online by the end of the
challenge, Keranov and Kolev called in Ivan Zhekov, a web developer who
they knew could push their project to completion. Kiril Nikolov, already
a friend to Keranov and Kolev, was known to both men as a superb source
of enthusiasm and positivity; this, coupled with his hand for
development, made him the essential ingredient to the formation of what
was soon to be the ChicksBook team. Thus assembled, they struck off to
conquer Space Apps Sofia.

Now, the only matter was to pick a challenge. Luckily for the team, this
was not as difficult as expected.

The Backyard Poultry Farmer challenge almost immediately caught they
guys' eyes - why on earth were chickens important to NASA? But after a
bit of investigation, they realized this challenge was the one for them.
In Bulgaria, local agriculture is far more common than in the US. In
fact, most of the team members have grandparents in Bulgaria who
actually raise chickens in their backyards. Using this cultural
relevancy, they found a way to help both their community and the world
by creating a platform that addresses the practical challenges and
applications of raising poultry. They created their app using an API
that allows for both Android and iOS mobile applications. The team
remains grateful to Telerik Academy for their extensive support in
helping gain knowledge and experience in software development.

So, can I add you on ChicksBook?

Â 
