Title: An Interview with O'Reilly Media 
Date: 2013-02-01 14:03
Author: Nick Skytland
Category: OpenGov
Tags: citizen science, civic hacking, data visualization, Earth Day, Gov 2.0, NASA, Open Data, open hardware, open science
Slug: an-interview-with-oreilly

*This is article was originally posted on [O'Reilly Radar][] and written
by [Alex Howard][].*

From April 20 to April 21, on Earth Day, the second international [Space
Apps Challenge][] will invite developers on all seven continents to the
bridge to contribute code to NASA projects.

Given longstanding concerns about the [sustainability of apps
contests][], I was curious about NASA’s thinking behind [launching this
challenge][]. When I asked [NASA’s open government team][] about the
work, I immediately heard back from Nick Skytland ([@Skytland][]), who
heads up NASA’s open innovation team.

“The International Space Apps Challenge was a different approach from
other federal government ‘app contests’ held before,” replied Skytland,
via email.

“Instead of incentivizing technology development through open data and a
prize purse, we sought to create a unique platform for international
technological cooperation though a weekend-long event hosted in multiple
locations across the world. We didn’t just focus on developing software
apps, but actually included open hardware, citizen science, and data
visualization as well.”

Aspects of that answer will please many open data advocates, like Clay
Johnson or David Eaves. When Eaves recently looked at [apps contests][],
in the context of his work on [Open Data Day][] (coming up on February
23rd), he emphasized the importance of events that build community and
applications that meet the needs of citizens or respond to business
demand.

The rest of my email interview with Skytland follows.

Why is the International Space Apps Challenge worth doing again?
----------------------------------------------------------------

**Nick Skytland:** We see the International Space Apps Challenge event
as a valuable platform for the Agency because it:

-   Creates new technologies and approaches that can solve some of the
    key challenges of space exploration, as well as making current
    efforts more cost-effective.
-   Uses open data and technology to address global needs to improve
    life on Earth and in space.
-   Demonstrates our commitment to the principles of the [Open
    Government Partnership][] in a concrete way.

What were the results from the first challenge?
-----------------------------------------------

**Nick Skytland:** More than [100 unique open-source solutions][] were
developed in less then 48 hours.

There were [6 winning apps][], but the real “results” of the challenge
was a 2,000+ person community engaged in and excited about space
exploration, ready to apply that experience to challenges identified by
the agency at relatively low cost and on a short timeline.

How does this challenge contribute to NASA’s mission?
-----------------------------------------------------

**Nick Skytland:** There were many direct benefits. The first
International Space Apps Challenge offered seven challenges specific to
satellite hardware and payloads, including submissions from at least two
commercial organizations. These challenges received multiple solutions
in the areas of satellite tracking, suborbital payloads, command and
control systems, and leveraging commercial smartphone technology for
orbital remote sensing.

Additionally, a large focus of the Space Apps Challenge is on citizen
innovation in the commercial space sector, lowering the cost and
barriers to space so that it becomes easier to enter the market. By
focusing on citizen entrepreneurship, Space Apps enables NASA to be
deeply involved with the quickly emerging space startup culture. The
event was extremely helpful in encouraging the collection and
dissemination of space-derived data.

As you know, we have amazing [open data.][] Space Apps is a key
opportunity for us to continue to open new data sources and invite
citizens to use them. Space Apps also encouraged the development of new
technologies and new industries, like the space-based 3D printing
industry and [open-source ROV][] ([remote submersibles for underwater
exploration][].)

How much of the code from [more than 200 “solutions”][] is still in use?
------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Nick Skytland:** We didn’t track this last time around, but almost all
(if not all) of the code is still available online, many of the projects
continued on well after the event, and some teams continue to work on
their projects today. The best example of this is the [Pineapple
Project][], which participated in numerous other hackathons after the
2012 International Space Apps Challenge and just recently was accepted
into the Geeks Without Borders accelerator program.

Of the [71 challenges][] that were offered last year, a low percentage
were NASA challenges — about 13, if I recall correctly. There are many
reasons for this, mostly that cultural adoption of open government
philosophies within government is just slow. What last year did for us
is lay the groundwork. Now we have much more buy-in and interest in what
can be done. This year, our challenges from NASA are much more
mission-focused and relevant to needs program managers have within the
agency.

Additionally, many of the externally submitted challenges we have come
from other agencies who are interested in using space apps as a platform
to address needs they have. Most notably, we recently worked with the
Peace Corps on the [Innovation Challenge][] they offered at [RHoK][] in
December 2012, with great results.

The International Space Apps Challenge was a way for us not only to move
forward technology development, drawing on the talents and initiative of
bright-minded developers, engineers, and technologists, but also a
platform to actually engage people who have a passion and desire to make
an immediate impact on the world.

What’s new in 2013?
-------------------

**Nick Skytland:** Our goal for this year is to improve the platform,
create an even better engagement experience, and focus the collective
talents of people around the world on develop technological solutions
that are relevant and immediately useful.

We have a high level of internal buy-in at NASA and a lot of
participation outside NASA, from both other government organizations and
local leads in many new locations. Fortunately, this means we can focus
our efforts on making this an meaningful event and we are well ahead of
the curve in terms of planning to do this.

To date, 44 [locations][] have confirmed their participation and we have
six spots remaining, although four of these are reserved as placeholders
for cities we are pursuing. We have 50 challenge ideas already drafted
for the event, 25 of which come directly from NASA. We will be releasing
the entire list of challenges around March 15th
on [spaceappschallenge.org][Space Apps Challenge].

We have 55 organizations so far that are supporting the event, including
seven other U.S. government organizations, and international agencies.
Embassies or consulates are either directly leading or hosting the
events in Monterrey, Krakow, Sofia, Jakarta, Santa Cruz, Rome, London
and Auckland.

  [O'Reilly Radar]: http://radar.oreilly.com/2013/02/nasa-launches-second-international-space-apps-challenge.html
  [Alex Howard]: http://radar.oreilly.com/alexh
  [Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [sustainability of apps contests]: http://radar.oreilly.com/2011/08/app-contests-sustainability-usability.html
  [launching this challenge]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2013/01/15/nasa-launches-second-annual-international-space-apps-challenge
  [NASA’s open government team]: http://fedscoop.com/nasa-open-government-team-broadens-focus-to-innovation/
  [@Skytland]: http://twitter.com/Skytland
  [apps contests]: http://techpresident.com/news/wegov/23146/app-contest-or-not-app-contest
  [Open Data Day]: http://opendataday.org/
  [Open Government Partnership]: http://radar.oreilly.com/2012/07/does-the-open-government-partnership-merit-more-oversight-and-attention.html
  [100 unique open-source solutions]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2012/04/25/100-reasons-spaceapps-made-a-difference/
  [6 winning apps]: http://www.dvice.com/archives/2012/05/space-apps-chal.php
  [open data.]: http://data.nasa.gov/
  [open-source ROV]: http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/05/28/a-mini-sub-made-from-cheap-parts-could-change-underwater-exploration/
  [remote submersibles for underwater exploration]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2012/06/14/open-hardware-exploration-at-neemo16/
  [more than 200 “solutions”]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/solutions/
  [Pineapple Project]: http://idea.usaid.gov/opendata/pineapple-project
  [71 challenges]: http://2012.spaceappschallenge.org/challenges/
  [Innovation Challenge]: http://innovationchallenge.peacecorps.gov/
  [RHoK]: http://www.rhok.org/
  [locations]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2013/01/04/where-in-the-world-is-space-apps/
