An Invitation to Participate in #SpaceApps
##########################################
:date: 2012-04-13 11:32
:author: rgaran
:category: OpenGov
:tags: orbital perspective, space apps, Yuri's Night
:slug: an-invitation-to-participate-in-spaceapps

Yuri Gagarin was 27 years old when he left the protective atmosphere of
Earth, and then returned 108 minutes later with the perspective nearly
all of us privileged to follow him would come to understand:

“Orbiting Earth in the spaceship, I saw how beautiful our planet is.
People, let us preserve and increase this beauty, not destroy it!”

Fifty years later, when I left Earth from the same launchpad as Yuri
Gagarin, I took with me another long held view of astronauts and
cosmonauts: you can’t see borders from space. It was during my five and
one-half month mission that I discovered that I was wrong. You can see
human-made borders from space.

Despite this, the orbital perspective of living and working in space
shows us just how interconnected we are. We are all in this together.
The orbital perspective, first sensed by Yuri Gagarin fifty-one years
ago, is the realization that the only way we can solve the problems
facing our planet is by working together.

On April 21st and 22nd, citizens of Earth will pool their brainpower and
their passion for problem solving in a 48 hour technology development
marathon taking place on all seven continents – and in space. `The
International Space Apps Challenge`_\ is the epicenter for the kind of
collaboration that gives birth to innovation, and clarity to issues
facing our planet and its inhabitants.

The `Space Apps Challenge`_ draws a straight line from what confronts
humans who live in space to what confronts us here on Spaceship Earth.
Think about it: we have no natural resources in the hostile environment
of space. This forces us to generate, collect, store, conserve, recycle,
and manage our resources wisely - just like we must on Earth. After all,
the life support systems that sustain astronauts onboard the
International Space Station are not really different than those that
sustain humans on Earth: water, air, food, environment; even community,
communication and peace.

NASA is working with organizations around the world on the International
Space Apps Challenge as part of the United States commitment to the Open
Government Partnership. As of today, 1,300 concerned citizens of Earth,
discipline experts, engineers, scientists, and software code developers
will collaborate at 25 physical locations worldwide to build software,
open hardware, data visualization, and citizen science platform
solutions from publicly available data that address strategic
exploration and social needs. All challenges are listed on the
International Space Apps website, including `one submitted by Fragile
Oasis`_.

Of all the innovations that can come from the International Space Apps
Challenge, I believe the most important of all is the collaboration
itself. A global community coming together to tackle challenges facing
our planet demonstrates the power of collaboration across borders,
cultures and continents.

I look forward to meeting everyone at the San Francisco location, and
interacting online with others all over the globe. Please join us!

Competition among nations thrust one human into space fifty-one years
ago today. International cooperation keeps us there, and is the key to
taking us far beyond what we can see with just our eyes.

| Listen here for Ron's interview with Gov2.0 Radio about #SpaceApps:
| 

.. _The International Space Apps Challenge: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
.. _Space Apps Challenge: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
.. _one submitted by Fragile Oasis: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/fragile-oasis-map-difference/
