Title: Are you afraid of the dark?
Date: 2012-07-05 10:12
Author: Samantha Snabes
Category: OpenGov
Slug: are-you-afraid-of-the-dark

*Designer-in-Residence [Katy Jeremko][] and Social
Entrepreneur-in-Residence [Samantha Snabes][] muse about their recent
visit to a hidden basement at the NASA Johnson Space Center.*

Buried three floors underground in a restricted area is a 50 year old
room encapsulated by 20cm thick lead walls, which is so cut off from the
world that even the air does not mix with the environment.  This is a
place of legend and intrigue, acting as a perfect stage for what would
be an Alfred Hitchock movie. Containing untouched evidence, this space
was part of an era enthralled with going “where no man has gone
before”.  Committing ourselves to exploring the intersection of design,
technology and society, we decided to take a tour of this remote and
often overlooked historical landmark with our teammate and resident
maker, Chris Gerty.

**Location**: the basement of NASA Johnson Space Center’s Building 37,
the former Lunar Receiving Laboratory, a building originally constructed
to [quarantine][] [astronauts][] and material brought back from
the [Moon][] during the [Apollo program][]. In order to ensure those
returning from the moon did not contaminate society with much feared
space cooties, crews recovered from the sea walked from
their [helicopter][] to an isolation van on the deck of an [aircraft
carrier][] and were brought to the LRL for quarantine. Samples of rock
and [regolith][] that the astronauts collected and brought back were
flown directly to the LRL and initially analyzed 50 ft below the
building in glovebox [vacuum chambers][] in a Lab called the Radiation
Counting Laboratory. This facility was important for measuring the
natural radioactivity of the lunar samples, some of which is caused by
cosmic rays.  Half a century later, the room sits relatively unused and
forgotten.

**Our mission:** to uncover unused hardware stored in this neglected
locale with hopes of inviting the hacker community to unravel
application to today. This subterranean area is a space which holds some
of the clues and links to our technological history. In that history, we
are seeking the untold stories of the past. Today, we have a handbag of
tools which allow us to create to our minds’ desire. But between these
objects of antiquity and the modern age, there is a lapse in things
unseen. By exploring these spaces and observing how & way the past was
assembled, we can create a better future with the logical intelligence
of the space age and the modern resources of today.

While we did discover some pretty cool instruments, what was more
impressive was the experience. Crossing through the gate into the
dedicated elevator heightened the sense of respect for the content that
the space contained.  Our ears popped as we descended to the lowest
point on the Johnson Space Center’s grounds, envisioning the uncertainty
and excitement harbored by the few employees who had the chance to view
this portal.  We playfully took photos next to abandoned lead boxes and
bricks in our converse & jeans, as our escort described the suits that
encapsulated the staff that had spent long hours cataloging and
analyzing materials that literally were out-of-this world.  The drab
colors, fluorescent lighting, heavy materials, and unfamiliar layout of
the room reinforced the facilities’ purpose -- to contain and understand
the unknown. We developed a new admiration for these cold war pioneers
who overcame fear and took unprecedented risks each mission and every
day spent researching underground.  The science and insight gained from
the Apollo program would yield numerous spinoffs, position the US a
leader in STEM, and inspire so many, including young women like
ourselves, to reach for the stars.

What other physical discoveries throughout history have been treated
with such deliberate design and scientific care: titanic artifacts, cave
drawings, Mars meteorites?  We invite you to comment and share your
thoughts as we explore the past and the future together.

[![lrlradiationlab][]][]

  [Katy Jeremko]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/author/kjeremko/
  [Samantha Snabes]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/author/ssnabes/
  [quarantine]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quarantine
  [astronauts]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astronauts
  [Moon]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moon
  [Apollo program]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollo_program
  [helicopter]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helicopter
  [aircraft carrier]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aircraft_carrier
  [regolith]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regolith
  [vacuum chambers]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vacuum_chamber
  [lrlradiationlab]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/lrlradiationlab.jpg
    "lrlradiationlab"
  [![lrlradiationlab][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/lrlradiationlab.jpg
