Title: Asking YOU anything: What should NASA do next? 
Date: 2012-12-07 16:18
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Participation, participatory exploration, ron garan, Social Media
Slug: asking-you-anything-what-should-nasa-do-next

On the social media platform [Reddit][], notable people often hold
events called [Ask Me Anything (AMA][]) where users are invited to ask
anything they wish. They are the experts... and "redditors" have direct
access to discuss, engage and learn from these celebrities, leaders and
notable citizens.

NASA astronaut and openNASA team member [Ron Garan][] subverted the
system last night, using this unique platform as an opportunity to ask
the public *their* views on human space exploration.

[I am NASA astronaut Ron Garan, I want to do an AMA but instead I want
to ask you: What do you think NASA should do next? What's should be the
next destination for human space exploration?][]

Ron's AMA has received 2,353,756 reads and 5818 comments in 15 hours.
The Moon, Mars, Mercury and asteroids are widely debated... as well as
space elevators, technology development, astronaut candidacy and
exploration of the oceans. [One of my favorites was about STEM education
and the value of (perservering through) learning math.][] And some of
those comments are incredibly insightful regarding what we do at NASA,
the public's view of space exploration and thoughts on where we should
go next.

<span style="color: #993300;">I don't think it really matters where
human spaceflight goes next, as long as it's up and out and beyond where
we've been before. Permanently.</span>

<span style="color: #993300;">If people saw NASA as a savior for
financial problems, a scientific powerhouse, as an institution that
directly benefited them, they wouldn't want to cut it.</span>

<span style="color: #993300;">I'd like to see NASA turn into a more
international organisation. And to be more open on their projects so
that they can use crowd sourcing as a means of research, testing and
contribution. Humans need to work together if we are going to get off
this rock to explore outside of our solar system. Time to forget about
country lines and work as earthlings.</span>

<span style="color: #993300;">That doesn't necessarily mean no moon
bases. It does mean, however, that you can't go at the idea primarily in
terms of "Let's set up a moon base" but rather in terms of "What would a
moon base get us, and what technological advancements must we focus on
to get there?" Then, you can sell your idea to a public and to
politicians who may not understand the importance of moon bases.</span>

<span style="color: #993300;">My thought is we need to develop the
technologies for self-supporting, sustainable communities on Earth. We
have limited high quality resources on our planet, and our waste
products are threatening our quality of life here. The same technologies
that you need for a good future here on Earth are the ones you need for
a colony in space. So develop them, and apply them to Earth first,
because that is where all the people are. Once you get them good enough,
apply them to space also.</span>

<span style="color: #993300;">The next destination for NASA should be
Elementary, Middle, and High-Schools across the country. I can't imagine
that you and your colleagues don't LOVE what you do for a living. If you
took some of that passion to the classrooms of soon-to-be voters and got
them excited about the possibilities of the space-program you would do
more to ensure the future of NASA than anything else I can think
of. </span>

One reader argued that NASA's focus has to be **daring mighty things:**

[You ask what I want to see from NASA. I want to see NASA do things that
will inspire what I cannot possibly imagine. I want NASA to accomplish
the impossible and cause a ripple effect that brings about something
even greater than what they've done. I want to see a NASA that inspires
me and everyone around me to understand that impossible is only a
limitation that I restrict upon myself.][]

**What do you think NASA should do next? What should be the next
destination for human exploration?** Leave a comment here (or join the
Reddit discussion if you prefer!)

  [Reddit]: http://reddit.com
  [Ask Me Anything (AMA]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reddit#Reddit_IAmA
  [Ron Garan]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/bloggernauts/Astro_Ron/
  [I am NASA astronaut Ron Garan, I want to do an AMA but instead I want
  to ask you: What do you think NASA should do next? What's should be
  the next destination for human space exploration?]: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/14f7gt/i_am_nasa_astronaut_ron_garan_i_want_to_do_an_ama/
  [One of my favorites was about STEM education and the value of
  (perservering through) learning math.]: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/14f7gt/i_am_nasa_astronaut_ron_garan_i_want_to_do_an_ama/c7ck24t
  [You ask what I want to see from NASA. I want to see NASA do things
  that will inspire what I cannot possibly imagine. I want NASA to
  accomplish the impossible and cause a ripple effect that brings about
  something even greater than what they've done. I want to see a NASA
  that inspires me and everyone around me to understand that impossible
  is only a limitation that I restrict upon myself.]: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/14f7gt/i_am_nasa_astronaut_ron_garan_i_want_to_do_an_ama/c7clkn4
