Title: Awesome Stuff in Space: Planet Mining GONE WILD
Date: 2013-09-25 13:23
Author: samwilkinson
Category: OpenGov
Slug: awesome-stuff-in-space-planet-mining-gone-wild

You may have heard of the hyper-startup [Planetary Resources][], a
company which aims to "expand Earth's natural resource base" by
developing (and eventually using) the technology to mine asteroids in
the Solar System. They also have a lot of money, with investors such as
Larry Page (Co-founder of Google) and James Cameron (Writer of Rambo:
First Blood Part II). But what if they’re thinking a bit too small?
There’s an exoplanet called [55 Cancri e][] which orbits the star 55
Cancri A \~41 light-years away from Earth. What makes 55 Cancri e
interesting is that it weighs about 8.63 times the mass of the Earth and
there is a good chance that [about third of that mass is diamond][].
That’s a lot of diamond. Let’s be optimistic and assume for the moment
that 55 Cancri e does in fact contain 2.88 times the mass of the Earth
on diamond. What would happen if Planetary Resources really turned on
the afterburner and tried to mine 55 Cancri e?

One slight problem is that at the moment very little is known about the
geochemistry/geophysics of carbon-rich planets like 55 Cancri e (Earth
is “oxygen-rich”), though I’m sure the promise of INFINITY DIAMOND would
make the necessary research happen. Let’s just assume that the mining
professionals can figure out how to mine diamond from 55 Cancri e anyway
(probably with lasers or something). The problem then becomes transport.
41 light-years doesn’t sound too bad, does it? [Voyager 1][], which
recently left our Solar System, is 18,812,796,028 km away from Earth and
is going really quite fast (\~17km per second relative to the Sun).
While it is one of humanity’s crowning achievements in space
exploration, Voyager 1 is only 0.00198 light-years from Earth (and that
took 36 years!). It would therefore take 20707 years for a spacecraft
travelling at the same speed as Voyager 1 to get to 55 Cancri e from
Earth. Even [Helios 2][], a West German/NASA probe which currently holds
the record for the highest speed attained by a man-made object, 67km per
second, would still take 5254 years at it’s max speed to reach 55 Cancri
e. It should also be noted that while Voyager 1 and Helios 2 are
reasonably heavy, the equipment required for a substantial mining
program would be orders of magnitude heavier.

The fact is that conventional propulsion technologies currently
available to us just don’t cut it. But there’s another problem. Even if
we can develop the technology fast enough to get there within a few
decades (i.e. figure out how to travel close to the speed of light), we
develop an arch-nemesis: Hydrogen gas. Why? Well, there’s the [extremely
low density cloud of hydrogen in Interstellar space][] that we would
need to travel through. The issue is that when you travel at near the
speed of light, that thin cloud of hydrogen is essentially turned into a
death ray. According to [William Edelstein][] of the Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine in Baltimore, if a spacecraft were to
travel at 99.999998 percent the speed of light, the hydrogen atoms would
seem to have an energy of 7 Teraelectronvolts, the same energy as
protons in the [Large Hadron Collider at Cern running at full tilt][].
This would expose the crew to over 10000 sieverts of radiation every
second, given that the lethal dose of radiation for a human is 8
sieverts, [you’re going to have a bad time][]. Even a robotic mining
crew would struggle, the electronics would be very quickly fried and the
structure of the ship would disintegrate well before the ship arrived at
55 Cancri e.

There’s an obvious solution to the death ray problem, we’re going to
[have to go faster than light][]! There are two options for this, both
of which are highly theoretical at the moment. I’m not going to go into
too much detail, because there’s a lot of complex physics/maths and not
a whole lot of consensus. The first method involves creating a
“[Traversable Wormhole][]” (essentially a gate between two locations)
between somewhere near Earth and somewhere near 55 Cancri e. Since you
can travel at fairly vanilla speeds through the wormhole, Hydrogen
death-rays aren’t a problem, but you can still travel somewhere far away
very quickly. The second method uses something called an “[Alcubierre
Drive][]” which distorts space-time around you in order to get to a
location faster than light travelling in normal, garden-variety
spacetime. While it is somewhat mathematically consistent with current
physical theories, it requires weird things like Negative Energy
Density, so might not be feasible to build one! Because of these
considerations, I’m going to say that a Traversable Wormhole will be our
best bet. These will enable us to get to 55 Cancri e extremely quickly
(\<41 years).

It would be prudent to open up the wormhole portal thing reasonable far
away from Earth, we’ll use 35,786km because that’s the same height as a
Geosynchronous orbit and I can calculate how much it costs to to get our
mining equipment up there! Using the [SpaceX Falcon Heavy][] launch
system, currently the world’s most powerful rocket, it costs [\$130
million][] to get 21.2 tonnes up to that altitude. I don’t know much
about mining equipment, so I just found [the most expensive looking
Drill I could][]. I know it probably won’t be the right kind of thing,
but I’m going to use it’s mass as a benchmark for the weight for the
fancy laser-using robotic miners we’re going to deploy to 55 Cancri e.
Fortunately, the expensive looking drill weighs 20.4 tonnes, so we’ll
say each Robo-Miner thing costs \$130 million to get to 55 Cancri e
(assuming the wormhole was already there or something). We’re also going
to want to bring some transportation equipment to send the diamonds back
to Earth! Since there likely aren’t any people on 55 Cancri e, we can
probably put one of the wormhole entrances on the surface of 55 Cancri e
(and figure out some way to slow down our equipment when it passes
through the wormhole from Geostationary Transfer orbit). I’m going to
use the specs of the [SpaceX Dragon][] as a benchmark for what the
specifications of our diamond return vehicle will be like (we’d need a
souped up heatshield though!). A SpaceX dragon weighs 4.2 tonnes and can
return to Earth with 3.13 tonnes of extra cargo, so if we use some fancy
folding system we can assume that we can launch 5 diamond return
vehicles on one SpaceX Falcon Heavy. Since R&D/Construction/Running
costs are notoriously hard to estimate, let’s assume that the cost will
be in the same order of magnitude as the Apollo program (I’ve excluded
the cost of the launch vehicles, because we’re going to get them from
SpaceX): \$15.2 billion. I’m going to sum up our costs below:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Startup Costs:</span> 20
Robo-Miners x \$130 million each for launch = \$2.6 billion. Total
Estimated Costs = \$2.6 billion + \$15.2 billion = ***\$17.8 billion***
(This does not take into account the cost of the Diamond Return Vehicle
launches).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Cost of each Diamond Return
Vehicle:</span> \$130 million for each launch/5 Vehicles = ***\$26
million***.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Current estimated price of 1
Tonne of Diamond:</span> [\$60 million for 0.01192 kilograms][].
Therefore 1 Tonne of Diamond is currently worth ***\$83892 million***.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Cost to return 1 Tonne of
Diamond:</span> Each Diamond Return Vehicle costs \$26 million and can
return 3.13 Tonnes of Diamond. Therefore 1 Tonne costs ***\$8.3
million***

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Profit on each Tonne of
Diamond:</span> \$83892 million - \$8.2 million = ***\~\$84.9 billion***

As you can see from the above, this would be very profitable! Keep in
mind the effect INFINITY DIAMOND would have on the price of diamond
([Economists][], help me out!) It would give the miners of 55 Cancri e
essentially a monopoly in the diamond industry though, and each capsule
returning to Earth would make \~\$265.7 billion in profit with the
diamond prices of today! This would likely make the extremely high R&D
costs much easier to stomach!

  [Planetary Resources]: http://www.planetaryresources.com/
    "Planetary Resources"
  [55 Cancri e]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/55_Cancri_e "55 Cancri e"
  [about third of that mass is diamond]: http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012ApJ...759L..40M
    "Diamond Planet!"
  [Voyager 1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voyager_1 "Voyager 1"
  [Helios 2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Helios_2_(NASA) "Helios 2"
  [extremely low density cloud of hydrogen in Interstellar space]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interstellar_medium
    "Interstellar Medium"
  [William Edelstein]: http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn18532-starship-pilots-speed-kills-especially-warp-speed.html#.UkMXWmQ9znU
    "New Scientist Article"
  [Large Hadron Collider at Cern running at full tilt]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_Hadron_Collider
    "LHC"
  [you’re going to have a bad time]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anatoli_Bugorski
    "Guy who got hit in the face by a particle accelerator beam"
  [have to go faster than light]: http://static.comicvine.com/uploads/original/2/27500/1012816-warpchrt.gif
    "Warp Factors"
  [Traversable Wormhole]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wormhole#Traversable_wormholes
    "Traversable Wormhole"
  [Alcubierre Drive]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alcubierre_drive
    "Alcubierre Drive"
  [SpaceX Falcon Heavy]: http://www.spacex.com/falcon-heavy
    "Falcon Heavy"
  [\$130 million]: http://www.spacex.com/about/capabilities
    "Spacex Pricing"
  [the most expensive looking Drill I could]: http://xml.catmms.com/servlet/ImageServlet?imageId=C775593
    "Expensive Drill"
  [SpaceX Dragon]: http://www.spacex.com/dragon "SpaceX Dragon"
  [\$60 million for 0.01192 kilograms]: http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-24239268
    "Really Big Diamond"
  [Economists]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supply_and_demand
    "How does it work?"
