Title: Beyond Waste
Date: 2012-04-02 16:26
Author: Ron Garan
Category: OpenGov
Slug: beyond-waste

*This update "[LAUNCHing Ideas for a Waste-less Tomorrow][]" by
astronaut [Ron Garan][] is cross-posted from the [Office of Science and
Technology Policy][] blog. You can follow Ron on Twitter at
[@Astro\_Ron][] and LAUNCH on Twitter at [@launchorg][]. *

As a participant of the first LAUNCH forum, LAUNCH: *Water,* and someone
who recently returned from six months experiencing the orbital
perspective of our planet from 240 miles above the Earth, I invite
innovators from around the world to participate in LAUNCH: *Beyond
Waste*.

LAUNCH, a social entrepreneurship forum, is in its third year of
existence,and is taking public/private partnerships to new
heights—literally and figuratively. A partnership among NASA, the U.S.
Agency for International Development, the State Department, and NIKE, it
has become a testbed for collaboration across non-traditional
disciplines and organizations, bringing innovative solutions to
difficult sustainability challenges around and above the world.

Specifically, LAUNCH draws parallels between resource challenges humans
face onboard the International Space Station and those on Earth. Think
about it: we have no natural resources in the hostile environment of
space, which forces us to generate, collect, store, conserve, recycle,
and manage our resources wisely — just like we must on Earth. LAUNCH
offers NASA’s problem-solving expertise to crucial conversations on
sustainability-related topics with innovative problem solvers from
around the world. It enables NASA to promote emerging, transformative
technology to sustain and enrich the quality of life on Earth. After
all, the engineering approaches needed to solve many of the development
challenges facing our planet have a lot in common with those needed to
overcome the challenges of long-duration human missions beyond low-Earth
orbit.

We’ve specifically selected the LAUNCH challenges to tell the space
station sustainability story: the life support systems that sustain our
astronauts aboard the station are the same as those that support
inhabitants of the amazing spacecraft we are all riding on together
through the universe: Earth. Previous LAUNCH forums investigated
challenges to our planet relating to Water, Energy, and Health.

LAUNCH: *Beyond Waste *seeks ten game-changing innovations with the
potential to transform current waste management systems and practices.
This issue not only threatens our natural resources on Earth but also
affects how we design spacecraft and missions to transport humans beyond
Earth’s atmosphere. In fact, 40% of packaging for supplies we send up to
the crew living onboard the space station is discarded as waste. We need
to figure out a better way to use this material as feedstock, rather
than excess. We need to design closed-loop systems with a goal of zero
waste for long-duration space missions.

The LAUNCH: *Beyond Waste* challenge will accept proposals from **April
1 to May 15, 2012**. Ten LAUNCH innovators will be selected to present
technology solutions at the LAUNCH forum and receive networking and
mentoring opportunities from influential business and government
leaders. Following the forum, each innovator receives individualized
support in the LAUNCH Accelerator phase, led by USAID, to help apply
recommendations from the forum.

The previous forums have demonstrated intriguing solutions that may find
their way to space. LAUNCH: *Water*innovator Mark Tonkin of DTI-r
developed an irrigation system that uses brackish, saline, and polluted
water in irrigated agriculture. He’s growing trees in the Jordanian
desert and conducting large-scale field trials in the United Arab
Emirates, the U.K., and the United States We’re looking at an
experimental deployment of his technology to recycle water onboard the
space station. Tonkin credits LAUNCH: *Water *with driving him to
overhaul his business model and focus on research and development and
licensing opportunities.

To be part of the LAUNCH success, innovators should submit *Beyond
Waste* challenge proposals on the LAUNCH
website. <http://links.launch.org/beyond-waste>

I’m really looking forward to meeting everyone at the forum. We are all
in this together, and the only way we will overcome the challenges
facing our planet is together. The clock is ticking for a better
tomorrow!

*  
*

  [LAUNCHing Ideas for a Waste-less Tomorrow]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2012/04/02/launching-ideas-waste-less-tomorrow
  [Ron Garan]: http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/Bios/htmlbios/garan-rj.html
  [Office of Science and Technology Policy]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/administration/eop/ostp
  [@Astro\_Ron]: https://twitter.com/#!/astro_ron
  [@launchorg]: http://twitter.com/launchorg
