Title: Beyond Borders
Date: 2012-07-30 16:12
Author: ssnabes
Category: OpenGov
Tags: development, engineering, exploration, social impact
Slug: beyond-borders

Demonstrating the unique skillsets acquired by rocket scientists and
engineers supporting human space exploration, members of [Engineers
Without Borders- Johnson Space Center (EWB-JSC)][] actively translate
their expertise to real world problems in remote areas. This association
of Johnson Space Center (JSC) employees, contractors, and other
professionals in the Houston/Clear Lake area volunteer their time to
participate in the projects and efforts of [Engineers Without
Borders-USA][], a non-profit organization established in 2000 to help
developing areas worldwide with their engineering needs, while involving
and training a new kind of internationally responsible engineer. EWB-USA
projects involve the design and construction of sustainable water,
waste-water, sanitation, energy, and shelter systems. These projects,
initiated by the host community, are jointly designed between the
EWB-USA chapters with input from the community.  Participation in
EWB-JSC is purely volunteer based on members' own time, and is not
directly endorsed or supported by the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA).

Recently I had the honor of interviewing Tyler Blair-Sheppard, a co-lead
for a priority EWB-JSC project, the design and implementation of a fruit
drying system for an orphanage in Rwanda seeking economic stability.

**What do you do for NASA?**

I am the [Environmental Control and Life Support Systems Flight
Controller][] for the[International Space Station][]. The easiest way to
explain my job is that in space, we have to reproduce everything that
the Earth does for us; recycle water for the crew to drink, produce
oxygen for them to breathe, remove carbon dioxide from the air. My team
manages that system from the ground so the crew can focus on operating
the ISS as a science facility.

**When and why did you join EWB?**

I joined EWB-JSC in December of 2008 because I wanted to be able to
apply my knowledge and experience to problems in the developing world.

**Role in EWB-JSC**

I'm a project lead for our [Rwanda Project][], where we're developing a
sustainable fruit drying system for [L’ Esperance Children’s Village][]
in Rwanda, so they can sell the fruit abroad. The hope is that the
orphanage will be able to create their own income source, and remove
themselves from the seemingly endless cycle of donations eventually that
run out. It’s all about a sustainable income model; if they can start a
business where the profits pay for the children's healthcare and food,
the operations of the orphanage and then send the children to school and
then provide scholarships for university, so they can establish a new
model of sustainable development.

**Describe the connection between rural developing communities and space
exploration.**

Very often developing communities exist on the margins of resource
availability. Lack of access to clean water is a huge problem in the
developing world, as is are meeting basic sanitation needs. The
community in Rwanda where the orphanage is doesn't have access to an
electrical grid. In many ways, issues within the developing world
parallel those in space; scarce or very strained resources for
sustaining life. NASA has a strong history of developing technology to
sustain life in space. Much of that technology is applicable here on
Earth to sustainably improve life in the developing world.

**How does what you do for NASA relate to what you do for EWB?**

Maintaining life in space is probably one of the most difficult things
NASA does. Much of it has to do with using resources as efficiently as
possible. EWB applies the same logic to work here on Earth.

**Name 5 uses for Duct Tape.**

I once used it to fix a pipe in my bathroom while living in China. You
really can do just about anything with it.

**Do I have to I have to be a rocket scientist to join Engineers Without
Borders?**

There are a long list of people who made a difference before we even had
rockets, so the answer is pretty solidly no.

**What others applications between exploration and developing
communities can you identify? Share your thoughts and ideas in the
comments space below!**

  [Engineers Without Borders- Johnson Space Center (EWB-JSC)]: http://www.ewb-jsc.org/
  [Engineers Without Borders-USA]: http://www.ewb-usa.org/
  [Environmental Control and Life Support Systems Flight Controller]: http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/technology/sts-newsref/sts_eclss.html
  [International Space Station]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/main/index.html
  [Rwanda Project]: http://www.ewb-jsc.org/projects/rwanda.html
  [L’ Esperance Children’s Village]: http://lesperancerwanda.org/
