Title: Big Pockets, Bigger Ideas
Date: 2013-06-04 13:53
Author: khozeinkj
Category: OpenGov
Slug: big-pockets-bigger-ideas

When I was young, the first mentor I ever had taught me a valuable
lesson about new vocabulary words.

She said that every time I learned a new word, from that point on I then
owned that word. I could put it in my pocket for safekeeping, she said,
to take out and then use whenever I wanted.

This weekend was the [National Day of Civic Hacking][]. I spent Saturday
morning in Arlington, VA, speaking with developers whose projects
included making rescue missions safer for firefighters and decreasing
the amount of homeless on the streets. Later, I ended up at Google in
DC, where another \#hackforchange event was taking place. One of the
most memorable projects there came from a high school sophomore and his
brother, who developed apps that ranged from finding a far-parked car to
sending out texts to preset emergency contacts when one's phone died.

As a child, my pockets had been used for words. But in these hackers I
saw that they had pockets big enough to fit many words, strung together
by inspiration to form ideas and projects. And not only could their
pockets fit these ideas, but they took that innovation and used it to
construct products that would ease the life of the average human.

I think that was the most striking thing for me. So often people succumb
to cynicism - it's easier to not care about the issues that face the
planet, that face humanity. This makes way for those with the selfish
agenda - politicians seeking to gain a good reputation or corporations
grasping for whatever they can wring from the public. Despite all that,
the National Day of Civic Hacking showed me that real peopleÂ *do* care
about making the world better. These hackers devote their time and
effort to these apps for free, simply in the hope that one day their
creations will make the world a better place.

Sitting here at my desk in Connecticut, I hear words like "change,"
"revolutionize," and "innovate" every day. One can forget the true
meaning of those words the more they are casually thrown about in
conference calls and emails. But the National Day of Civic Hacking
proved to me that there are people in this world who do not numb their
humanity, but take the tools they have developed and strive forth to
build something lasting and meaningful for their fellow man.

  [National Day of Civic Hacking]: http://hackforchange.org/
    "National Day of Civic Hacking"
