Title: Citizen Engagement
Date: 2011-08-26 11:52
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Tags: citizen engagement
Slug: citizen-engagement

A core premise of the Open Government Initiative is *citizen
engagement*. But what does this really mean and why is this so
important?

A great definition of *citizen engagement* is simply **allowing all
individuals to contribute and participate**in our mission. At NASA, we
have a term for this – “***Participatory Exploration***.” It is
fundamentally about making the whole enterprise of space exploration -
research and development, science, discovery, and human exploration -
*participatory* and unleashing the human spirit of innovation. 
Importantly, participatory exploration does not just commit us to
connect with the public, but also charges us to engage our workforce --
people who work for NASA are citizens too, and have a vital role to
play.

As Charlie Bolden recently stated: “*The President is asking us to
harness that American spirit of innovation, the drive to solve problems
and create capabilities that is so embedded in our story and has led us
to the moon, to great observatories, and to humans living and working in
space, possibly indefinitely. That American ingenuity is alive and well,
and it will fire up our economy and help us create and win the future
now.”*

This all starts with a conversation. Let me explain:

When NASA opens its doors and encourages its own scientists and
engineers to engage in a **two-way conversation** with citizens, NASA’s
exploration mission is shared on a very personal level.  This is
effective **communication**.

When NASA’s message is effectively shared with citizens, they are more
inclined to share the message with others.  This is building
**relevancy.**

When NASA becomes more relevant to citizens, we build trust and gain
advocates who are personally invested in space exploration and desire to
contribute to the space program. This is **inspiration**.

When NASA creates opportunities for inspired citizens to participate by
contributing their time, talents and resources in meaningful ways, we
improve the flow of ideas and solutions into and out of the space
program.  This is **innovation**.

When NASA acts on these innovations, and collaborates with citizens to
solve our toughest challenges, new strategic partnerships are formed,
which accelerates innovation, preserves resources and saves money.  This
exponentially multiplies NASA’s **impact** on the world.

Finally, as NASA intentionally communicates, inspires, and innovates in
a relevant way, students notice and strive to participate so that they
can join in the exploration of new and unexplored frontiers.  Their
spirit of innovation is ignited and results in a renewed drive to pursue
STEM education *– which is vital for our country’s **future** success*.

Participatory Exploration is vital to building a community of connected,
educated citizens ready to invest in and advocate for exploration. It is
a strategic investment our nation must make if we truly desire to
out-innovate, out-educate, and out-build our competitors and create new
capabilities that will take us farther into the solar system and teach
us more about our place in it.  Through the Open Government Initiative,
NASA is committed to engaging citizens in our space exploration mission.

Are you ready to join in the grand challenge?
