Title: Collaborating Virtually in a Physical World
Date: 2011-08-04 18:12
Author: Chris Gerty
Category: OpenGov
Slug: collaborating-virtually-in-a-physical-world

Collaborative spaces sure are popular these days.  Personally, I’ve
learned to love working in this type of environment.  Get out of your
office and co-locate to work with your colleagues.  Share ideas and help
each other look at problems differently, brainstorm solutions, or maybe
even just practice that big presentation in front of an unbiased pair of
eyes. By discussing issues with folks who don’t have your same
perspective, it seems easier to be confident in the right solution to
problems faster.  Connecting also seems less deliberate and more
natural.  It takes full advantage of face-to-face interaction.

But let’s face it, collaboration is only useful if everyone you connect
with is in the same city, or can afford the time away from family and
other responsibilities to work face-to-face.  Alas, the NASA transporter
is still under development… But do you really need one?

Looking beyond the common physical location of collaborators, how can we
create these same experiences *virtually*?  Is it as simple as asking
your local college student about the latest social media tool?  How can
we deliberately foster online collaboration and retain the great
qualities of a face-to-face experience?  What approach can be taken to
avoid the risk of a virtual space feeling phony and creating unnecessary
barriers?

An article in this month’s Harvard Business Review discusses the concept
of three essential “affordances” of successful collaborative spaces:
*Proximity*, *Privacy*, and *Permission*.  As surprising as it is
logical, the article suggests that these affordances are equally
important in the design of a physical or a virtual space, and each
should be balanced regardless of the venue or medium.

But seriously, comparing these three affordances against the thousands
of online tools and platforms… The technology changes so quickly that
there isn’t one design to copy, or one model to follow.  So let’s take a
different approach: looking at some real-world examples, can we infer
some virtual-world guidance?  If we focus on function we might be on to
something…

**Proximity**:  In the real world this is the coffee cart that you pass
on the way from the parking lot.  It’s easy to get to, always open when
you need it, and most of the time there’s someone you know nearby.
Virtually is there a “place” that online participants go that has some
of the same qualities?  For years, email has been that “place”, required
to use for document exchange but just as effective to organize a
birthday celebration with colleagues.  But just as coffee carts get
crowded and prices go up, email inboxes became cluttered with reply-all
threads and authentication restrictions – and we started to see
alternatives emerge.  Many of us have observed Skype over the years
emerge as a means to communicate via video, audio or just a few lines of
text – it has become the espresso machine in the break room that
everyone chipped in for after the coffee cart raised its prices and cut
back operating hours.  It spurs conversations, connects people
informally, but can also lead to the only solution for a critical
conversation when all other options are inconvenient.  Notable is that
both the espresso machine and Skype-style platforms support an element
of “peripheral awareness” (i.e. who is around? How available are they to
chat right now?), another measure of proximity in both the physical and
virtual worlds.

**Privacy**: Wait a second. I thought we were talking about *open*
collaboration?  It was my first reaction too, but it occurred to me that
maybe that’s why it’s so often ignored.  This affordance actually refers
to the *availability* of privacy.  A quiet corner to discuss a sensitive
matter with a colleague is sometimes just as important as the
availability of that colleague in the first place.  In the virtual as in
the physical world, a private corner must be reasonably accessible,
always available and be clear in its degree of privacy.  Giving users
the option to set their status as “Away” or “Invisible” is a useful
means of proving some privacy, as are simple but prominent icons which
appear when an online conversation is one-on-one (and not available to a
larger audience).  Being overheard by the wrong person in the workplace
could be a bad thing, whether in a virtual or physical realm.

**Permission**:  In my opinion, herein lies our biggest challenge.  The
stigma of a collaborative spaces has historically been one of reluctant
acceptance by the working ranks, and intense resistance by management
(“Why are our employees wasting time chatting at the copy machine when
they could be in their cubicles finishing their TPS reports?”).  In
recent years however, has it become a common practice for managers to
actively encourage the cross-pollination of ideas, and more organic
interaction in their organizations. *Permission* from above is essential
in the acceptance of a new way of doing one’s job, but there can be no
fear of reprisal if it is to truly take hold.  But is this trend
tracking the same virtually?

Historically, the copy machine has been a shining example of giving
permission to interact.  Say you and an old friend from a different
division are making copies.  You’re still waiting for your copies to
finish, so you see no harm in discussing whether or not Shea Weber is
the best defenseman in the NHL, which leads to a discussion about what
else costs \$7.5 million, which leads to a new idea to save money at the
agency.  OK, it’s a stretch, but you get the idea.  I’d say that’s a
successful interaction, whether or not the money-saving idea holds
water.  And it all started from the fact that two people in completely
different areas felt that they had permission to talk about what was on
their minds, regardless of subject.

The trend to granting permission to interact and collaborate in virtual
settings has been much slower to emerge.  In the virtual world there
seems to be another layer of resistance.  Not only is there discomfort
with the interaction itself, but the medium in which the interaction
takes place is also foreign – especially to those observing this
interaction from the physical world.

We observe this at a meeting when attendees use a “backchannel”.  One
person speaking at a time, plus teleconferencing woes (lack of visual
cues, VoIP/cell phone delay) equate to a lot of people who might have an
opinion and not be able to voice it.  Online chat forums provide a venue
for those opinions without interrupting the speakers in the physical
world.  They provide on-demand “copier chatter” and expand it to anyone
in the organization.  On the other hand, laptops can distract, typing on
a Blackberry can convey disrespect, so taking advantage of these
features while in a meeting takes skill (in listening while typing) and
tact (in noticing if permission is granted).  What strikes me is this:
the very technologies which encourage a new way to interact virtually,
have physical qualities that limit our permission to use them.

Affording permission to collaborate in new ways may be the most
challenging of the three elements to achieve, but it is also the one
that we as leaders have the most control over.  We lead by example,
influence corporate policies, and establish workplace norms.  It means
putting on everyone’s hats: seeing how each of the roles in the
workforce may benefit from virtual interaction, and allowing them to try
it out.  Establishing that it’s OK to experiment will allow the privacy
and proximity issues to emerge – and it will let the community itself
work those issues out.  I mean, isn’t that how it works when we all get
together in person?
