Title: Congratulations to the global nominees of #SpaceApps 2013
Date: 2013-04-21 23:16
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Slug: congratulations-to-the-global-nominees-of-spaceapps-2013

Congratulations! The weekend is over... but \#SpaceApps is definitely
still on and moving into global judging! You can read the specifics of
how judging and awards will work [here][].

Next steps for projects and teams that won their local event and are
globally nominated:

​1. **You need to be sure that your project page is as complete as
possible.** All team members, all code, links to any photos,
presentations and datasets, social accounts if you have them - the more
information you have included on your page, the better. If you have a
software project where the code is not included, you will not be
eligible for judging.

​2. **You need to make a video.** For local judging, you gave a
presentation in person. For global judging, we need you to make a video
introducing your team, describing and demo-ing your solution. The video
can be simple or fancy, but should be no more than 2 minutes and should
highlight the impact of your project.** You will have until May 1,
2013** to submit a video describing your challenge and solution and link
it to your project page.

Check out this awesome example from [Space Apps Kansas City][] for their
project **Sol**:

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/ryYyrNJvw4w" height="480" width="600" allowfullscreen frameborder="0"></iframe>

And another great video example from a group of [virtual
collaborators][] for their project **Inbound**:

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/64515087?byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;color=ff9933" height="400" width="600" allowfullscreen frameborder="0"></iframe>

[Inbound][] from [Matthew Congrove][] on [Vimeo][].

Great submission videos will tell the story of your team, why you chose
your challenge or thought it was important, what you accomplished, how
you got there, and what the next steps are.

You should also start to think about sharing the story of your project
online and with your friends, as there will be a People's Choice award
given to the project with the highest number of public votes!

We can't wait to put up all these videos on [spaceappschallenge.org][]
and [share the stories of the people and the projects collaborating for
Earth and for space.][] Watch [spaceappschallenge.org][] and
[@spaceapps][] for updates and information. We expect to announce the
Global Best in Class awards on May 22.

**Congratulations and good luck!**

 

 

  [here]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2013/04/19/spaceapps-judging-and-awards/
  [Space Apps Kansas City]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/kansas-city/
  [virtual collaborators]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/virtual/
  [Inbound]: http://vimeo.com/64515087
  [Matthew Congrove]: http://vimeo.com/mcongrove
  [Vimeo]: http://vimeo.com
  [spaceappschallenge.org]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [share the stories of the people and the projects collaborating for
  Earth and for space.]: http://storify.com/heatherleson/space-app-snapshots
  [@spaceapps]: https://twitter.com/spaceapps
