Digital Astronaut Project
#########################
:date: 2012-05-25 09:45
:author: lmuluget
:category: OpenGov
:tags: collaboration, Exercise, Human Research Program, human spaceflight, Johnson Space Center, modeling, technology
:slug: digital-astronaut-project

*Lealem Mulugeta and DeVon Griffin's article first appeared in the
Spring 2012 issue of NASA’s ASK Magazine, found \ `here`_. We are
cross-posting it here as a great example of the intersection of
**collaboration**, \ **digital modeling technology,**\ and\ **human
performance**. You can contact `Lealem`_ or `DeVon`_ directly for more
information. *

Conducting human missions beyond low-Earth orbit to destinations such as
asteroids and Mars will require substantial work to ensure the
well-being of the crew. These new operational conditions, which will
include long periods in microgravity, will pose health risks that are
currently not well understood and perhaps unanticipated. Developing and
applying advanced tools to predict, assess, and mitigate potential
hazards to astronaut health is critical. `NASA’s Digital Astronaut
Project`_ (DAP) is working to build well-vetted computational models to
help predict and assess spaceflight health and performance risks, and
enhance countermeasure development. The DAP aims to accomplish these
goals through the following:

-  Partnering with subject-matter experts to address human health-risk
   knowledge gaps and countermeasure development decisions
-  Modeling, simulating, and analyzing physiological responses to
   exposure to reduced gravity and spaceflight-analog environments
-  Providing timely information to contribute to mission architecture
   and operations decisions in areas where clinical data are lacking

To achieve these objectives, the DAP follows a systematic, rigorous
process that begins by identifying human health-risk knowledge gaps that
are amenable to computational modeling. Subsequently, we work with
subject-matter experts within the Human Health Countermeasures element
of the `NASA Human Research Program`_ to narrow modeling and simulation
objectives to inform specific research questions or hypotheses. Then we
conduct a thorough field survey to identify state-of-the-art modeling
and simulation methodologies that can address the questions and
hypotheses effectively. Subsequently, the models are developed, refined,
verified, and validated to make them ready for research application.

| **A Multicenter and Multidisciplinary Collaborative Approach**
|  Once the models have been sufficiently vetted (an effort currently in
progress), we work with researchers or provide them models to simulate
typical spaceflight-environment scenarios. The results of the
simulations can then be interpreted by the subject-matter experts to
inform research. Additionally, results from research and flight
operations that the DAP informs can be used to further refine and
enhance the fidelity of our models for future use. In addition to
enhancing countermeasure development, our iterative and collaborative
approach offers other benefits:

-  Substantiates anecdotal evidence regarding spaceflight health risks
-  Reduces cost of flight and ground experiments by running
   complementary simulations to further substantiate or refine
   experiments for optimal results
-  Provides insight on the effects of long-duration spaceflight
   scenarios for which data are lacking

To ensure high-quality, repeatable results, the models are rigorously
vetted using NASA’s Standard for Models and Simulations (NASA-STD-7009).
We do everything we can to validate the modeling and simulation against
spaceflight or flight-analog data to establish the highest fidelity
possible. For example, we are in the process of using on-orbit video
data of crewmembers exercising to validate the kinematics of exercise
models. We are also gathering muscle and bone data from past spaceflight
missions and bed-rest experiments to validate the capability of our
musculoskeletal models to predict the impact of exercise countermeasures
on musculoskeletal fitness. Given that models and simulations have
limitations, we clearly document the validation and application domains
of our modeling and simulation to ensure they are not applied beyond
their intended use.

The DAP is managed out of Glenn Research Center by DeVon Griffin; the
science content of the project is directed by Lealem Mulugeta of the
Universities Space Research Association (USRA) in Houston at Johnson
Space Center. We work collaboratively to lead a tightly knit team of
researchers, engineers, and computational modelers located at Glenn and
Johnson to execute the project’s core mission. We conduct a weekly
tag-up teleconference to discuss planned activities for the week and
coordinate critical tasks that must be executed to meet milestones.
Lealem also meets with the multidisciplinary technical team via a weekly
teleconference to conduct highly focused technical discussions regarding
the development and implementation of modeling and simulation. DeVon
then closes out each week with a programmatic teleconference, during
which the team members provide status updates on current activities and
flag any programmatic risks that need to be addressed or tracked. If
required, the team also holds face-to-face meetings to address
high-priority issues. Finally, to keep the project and the team focused,
we have established project and science management plans to communicate
the overarching vision of the DAP and provide a road map that guides the
team’s efforts.

| **Applying Models and Simulations for Musculoskeletal Health
Research**
|  The DAP is assisting the `Exercise Physiology Countermeasures
Project`_ (ExPC) at Johnson to model exercise countermeasures that use
the Advanced Resistive Exercise Device (ARED) aboard the International
Space Station. Given the complementary expertise of DAP and ExPC in
computational modeling and exercise physiology, the teams established a
cooperative approach to develop and implement three exercise modules of
humans and an ARED device module. These model types are currently being
integrated to provide data on forces transmitted to various anatomical
locations as a result of the exercises.

The ARED exercise models will be integrated with bone and muscle
adaptation modules currently being developed. These models use both
terrestrial analog data and subject-matter-expert knowledge of
musculoskeletal and exercise physiology unique to spaceflight. Once
integrated with the exercise models, the bone and muscle models will
simulate the response of bone and muscle physiology to exercise
countermeasures during spaceflight missions. This will enable
researchers to conduct “what-if” analyses to gain insight into questions
such as

-  Is it possible to reduce the amount of exercise time and maintain
   musculoskeletal performance by increasing exercise intensity or
   eliminating some exercises?
-  Which exercises play the greatest role in maintaining musculoskeletal
   performance?
-  What is the impact of unanticipated failure of exercise equipment on
   musculoskeletal health, and can the exercise regimen be reformulated
   to minimize adverse effects?
-  Can exercise efficacy be enhanced for individual astronauts based on
   their unique anthropometrics?

In general, the overarching objective of this collaboration is to
develop and implement musculoskeletal modules and modeling capabilities
to customize and optimize exercise regimens based on anthropometrics and
gender. Another goal is to provide tools capable of answering unforeseen
exercise-physiology questions as they arise, as well as scalable and
extensible exercise-device modules and modeling capabilities or
platforms to evaluate the influence of exercise devices on exercise
performance and flight hardware.

Ultimately, these tools will be used to inform ground and flight studies
aimed at addressing musculoskeletal-risk knowledge gaps regarding the
minimum amount of exercise required to maintain musculoskeletal health
and performance, and the minimum set of exercise equipment needed to
maintain musculoskeletal health and performance.

The joint teams developed the ARED model in progressive stages to
gradually increase the module fidelity. The first product was a beta
version, used as a development and checkout tool for the integration
process with the biomechanics exercise modules. The teams maintain the
beta release as a development platform throughout the project because it
offers a simplified environment for checking and troubleshooting the
integrated modules. Follow-on versions provide increased fidelity,
including accurate characterization of mass, inertial and friction
properties of the device, and the vibration isolation system.

| **Work in Progress**
|  In addition to modeling and simulating exercise countermeasures, DAP
is currently collaborating with the NASA Bone Discipline lead within the
Human Adaptation and Countermeasures Division to apply modeling and
simulation to augment a new bone-strength standard that NASA is
currently developing. DAP team members are developing a unique
capability that will provide the first simulations of the effects of
microgravity on bone turnover. This work focuses on bone-strength
changes due to demineralization and architectural changes. It will also
be combined with biomechanical modeling to predict the loads experienced
at specific bone sites that are at greatest risk for fracture during
post-flight activities astronauts might perform, such as jumping. Based
on the outcomes of these simulations, it may be possible for clinicians
to guide the activities of astronauts in order to minimize risk of
fracture after they return from a mission.

The DAP is working with the Exercise Countermeasures Project Advanced
Exercise Concept (AEC) device-development team at Glenn to model
advanced-concept devices with the following goals:

-  Gaining insight into the efficacy of AEC devices for exercise
   countermeasures
-  Providing timely input for design, development, and refinement of AEC
   devices
-  Reducing the time and cost to develop the exercise devices
-  Reducing the time and cost to clinically test new exercise devices

Given that many of the AEC component prototypes will share some common
architecture, DAP is developing a generalized modeling toolbox that will
make it possible to rapidly benchmark the capabilities of proposed
devices for common loading profiles. This builds on DAP’s goal to
develop scalable, extensible exercise device-simulation modules and
capabilities to rapidly and inexpensively evaluate exercise hardware
efficacy during exploration missions. As part of that goal, the models
will be able to simulate changes in exercise protocol as well, allowing
exercise physiologists to conduct what-if analyses of various exercise
prescriptions for microgravity conditions.

Finally, DAP is working with the `Visual Impairment and Intracranial
Pressure`_\ project to address recent findings of anatomical changes of
the eye and visual performance diminution in many long-duration space
station crewmembers. Although these changes have varied in severity,
they have occurred at a much higher rate than expected. This project is
currently in the field-survey phase to identify modeling and simulation
resources that can be extended to answer key questions and test
hypotheses in this area.

 

.. _here: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/appel/ask/issues/46/46s_digital_astronaut.html
.. _Lealem: mailto:lealem.mulugeta@nasa.gov
.. _DeVon: mailto:devon.w.griffin@nasa.gov
.. _NASA’s Digital Astronaut Project: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/johnson/slsd/about/divisions/hacd/project/digital-astronaut.html
.. _NASA Human Research Program: http://www.nasa.gov/exploration/humanresearch/
.. _Exercise Physiology Countermeasures Project: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/johnson/slsd/about/divisions/hacd/project/exercise-countermeasures.html
.. _Visual Impairment and Intracranial Pressure: http://www.usra.edu/news/features/2012/vision/
