Title: Don't forget to stop and spot the station. 
Date: 2013-06-04 14:51
Author: srigdon
Category: OpenGov
Slug: dont-forget-to-stop-and-spot-the-station

It’s Saturday morning at Drexel University’s [ExCITe Center][] in West
Philadelphia. The first morning of hacking for the 2013 International
Space Apps Challenge begins.

Six students from the University of Pennsylvania’s [Science and
Technology Wing][] form a team, including undergrad Alain
Hernandez, with several Arduinos, a Raspberry Pi, LED display, servos,
and "an assortment of other hardware with no idea what we were going to
do with them," he says. Several challenges are discussed, including Spot
the Station.

At the Space Apps Mainstage opening reception the night before, local
legend [Derek Pitts][] had invited the crowd to guess how many times
they think the International Space Station passes over Philly. Up to
seven times each day? And even urban watchers can see it without a
telescope? They begin to brainstorm ways to bring this information to a
wider variety of audiences.

Meanwhile, a team of six others had formed and were considering the same
challenge. “In the spirit of collaboration,” says teammate
Kai Ninomiya, “we decided to talk to the other group about our
ideas—both to help us all with ideas and to avoid redundancy.” There is
no team size limit, so they combine their powers.

In another corner, local high school student Himavath Jois reads the
challenge descriptions over breakfast, considering his options. “Then,
Leland Melvin came over to talk to me and brought me into the
atmosphere,” he recalls. How often does an astronaut personally enlist
your help? He can’t refuse, and the team acquires another builder.

This is the start to ISS Base Station, which has gone on to win Best Use
of Hardware for extending the functionality of NASA’s [Spot the
Station][] alert system, further connecting people on Earth to the
International Space Station.

ISS Base Station is part software, part hardware, and all art. An iOS
app not only tracks the ISS but incorporates augmented reality to make
it easier to spot and share its location on social media. In addition, a
web app pushes data to the hardware piece, a statue that points to the
station as it passes overhead.

The project connected several different skill sets, enabling the
teammates to work most closely on their interests while observing others
in action. Project manager Dan Giovanni helped connect each component
and make sure the process ran smoothly.

Jois says skills learned with his high school robotics team helped him
tackle the hardware component. “I’m not too interested in sitting in
front of a computer for a long time and programming for hours on end,
but I liked getting my hands into what I was doing.” Andrew Kondrath
also helped build the demo using locally made K’NEX sets, two servos,
and an Arduino. “All of the equipment probably cost less than \$75,” he
says. “It could be done much cheaper.”

Cartographer Patrick Hammons joined the team, initially drawn to
mapping. “There’s a geospatial element to [Space Apps], which is unique
among hackathons,” he says. It was also an opportunity to see the
connection between an initial tracker map and the software and hardware.
“Seeing how the software works from beginning stage to final product, I
felt like I learned a lot more about it in that way.”

Local designer TK Rodgers had just recently heard about hackathons and
couldn’t wait to get involved. [Philly Tech Week][] was just weeks away
at the time, and connected her to several opportunities, including Space
Apps. “After finding out that the ISS is accessible to everyone on Earth
if assisted by tech to know when and how to spot the ISS, I was
completely sold on the project. Having both Leland Melvin and Derrick
Pitts with us made space so much closer, and I wanted to be able to
share a bit of that feeling with the rest of the world.”

The team is excited about their win, but also excited to continue the
work. They hope to further outfit the hardware component, perhaps with
custom 3D-printed parts. The goal is to fortify it for standing up to
wear in science and tech classrooms, or as a public art installation.

“I saw a lot of really cool and innovative projects, both at the local
event and on the challenge website, and I know that was only a fraction
of what was accomplished at the challenge,” says Kondrath. “It's amazing
what people can accomplish over a weekend.”

  [ExCITe Center]: http://drexel.edu/excite/ "Drexel's ExCITe Center"
  [Science and Technology Wing]: http://www.stwing.upenn.edu/index.php
    "UPenn Science and Technology Wing"
  [Derek Pitts]: https://solarsystem.nasa.gov/people/profile.cfm?Code=PittsD
    "Derek Pitts"
  [Spot the Station]: http://spotthestation.nasa.gov/
    "NASA's Spot the Station"
  [Philly Tech Week]: http://phillytechweek.com/ "Philly Tech Week"
