Title: Experiencing An Event Apart
Date: 2011-10-26 15:31
Author: sherron
Category: OpenGov
Tags: #aea, an event apart, api, data.nasa.gov, responsive design, semantic web, web design
Slug: experiencing-an-event-apart

I had the opportunity to attend [An Event Apart][] this week here in
Washington, DC. Billed as a conference "For People Who Make Websites",
An Event Apart is unlike pretty much any conference I’ve attended
before. The gist is that you sit in a giant room for 12 hours over two
days listening to the best and brightest from the design, development,
and user experience worlds tell you how to, for lack of a better term,
make your projects incredible. I’ve been a web geek for a long time and
pretty much organize my life in terms of semantic structure, so this
sort of stuff is right up my alley.

[caption id="attachment\_5195" align="aligncenter" width="500"
caption="Jeffrey Zeldman taking the stage Monday morning. Photo by
Jeremy Keith and Licensed under Creative Commons"][![][]][][/caption]

The overwhelming message throughout the entire event was that the
long-predicted shift in the ways people access the web has happened.
Smartphone and tablet usage has skyrocketed over the past few years and
users are accessing online resources more and more while they are on the
move. However, a website tailored to consumption on a desktop of laptop
doesn’t necessarily translate well to an iPhone. While I’m proud to say
that the entire family of openNASA websites are accessible from pretty
much any modern (or, as we learned, legacy) platforms out there, they
aren’t really optimized to any specific mobile usage. Moving forward,
I’d like to start implementing more elements of [responsive design][]
into our projects, tailoring the content we present depending on things
like browser width.

[caption id="attachment\_5201" align="aligncenter" width="500"
caption="Jeremy Keith presenting on Design Principles. Photo by Joel
Housman, used with permission."][![Jeremy Keith on Design
Principles][]][][/caption]

Additionally, there was a huge emphasis on the [semantic web][]. For
those unfamiliar, semantic web is the concept of a “globally-linked
database” – enabling computers to learn what is on a webpage rather than
just the syntax. The video below provides a good summary of the semantic
web:

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/OGg8A2zfWKg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

We’re just beginning our foray into the semantic web with the recent
launch of our [data.nasa.gov API][], which allows machine readable
access to metadata about thousands of NASA datasets. As we move forward,
we’re looking to use standards such as [RDF][] to help describe our data
in more detail so that it is even more accessible and simple to use than
it is now.

Over the next few weeks, you’ll see some iteration on the openNASA
family of sites as I integrate some of the lessons I learned from An
Event Apart. Have an idea for how we can improve any of our projects?
Feel free to share them in the comments or tweet me [@seanherron][]!

  [An Event Apart]: http://aneventapart.com/2011/dc/
  []: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/6283340548_ccc4cd2f50.jpeg
    "6283340548_ccc4cd2f50"
  [![][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/6283340548_ccc4cd2f50.jpeg
  [responsive design]: http://www.alistapart.com/articles/responsive-web-design/
  [Jeremy Keith on Design Principles]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/jeremykeith.jpeg
    "Jeremy Keith on Design Principles"
  [![Jeremy Keith on Design Principles][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/jeremykeith.jpeg
  [semantic web]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_Web
  [data.nasa.gov API]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/10/12/announcing-the-data-nasa-gov-api/
  [RDF]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_Description_Framework
  [@seanherron]: http://twitter.com/seanherron
