Title: Extreme Greenhouse
Date: 2013-06-10 16:29
Author: srigdon
Category: OpenGov
Slug: extreme-greenhouse

Greek spinach pie from spinach grown on Mars? Talk about local flavor.

At Space Apps Athens, it wasn’t such a far-off idea. Themis Karafasoulis
of [Hackerspace of Athens][] says, “When we found out that NASA thinks
open, we were sure that we wanted to enter this project.”

Nine hackers, including electrical engineers and an aeroponics expert,
came together to develop a solution to the [Deployable Greenhouse][]
challenge.

A group formed around a fascination with the new frontier of human
colonization on Mars. Many of them had never met before, but they came
together rather—well, there’s no other way to put this—organically.
Aeroponics expert Panos Bairamis says, “Everyone had different ideas to
contribute and so every time we had a problem, someone came up with a
good idea. We really liked that.”

[caption id="attachment\_8655" align="alignnone" width="573"][![Popeye
on Mars presentation][]][Popeye on Mars presentation] Popeye on Mars
presentation[/caption]

What to grow? They chose spinach because its cultivation is fairly
typical, so the concept could be easily adapted to other plant breeds.
With the design, they focused on creating a deployable greenhouse that
is small, self-sustaining, and easy to use.

The [Popeye on Mars][] team has gone on to win Best Mission Concept for
the 2013 International Space Apps Challenge.  A local mediastorm has
followed them since, including a few TV spots. “After our win, many
people came to Hackerspace for the first time, and have learned about
open source.” Panos is now offering newcomers to Hackerspace classes on
how to grow with aeroponics, and the Popeye on Mars team continues to
build on their work.

Panos added a cultural detail: “Here in Greece, when we want to say that
someone is smart, we have an expression. We say, ‘He works at NASA.’”

Through the magic of participatory collaboration, everyone can work with
NASA.

  [Hackerspace of Athens]: http://hackerspace.gr/wiki/Category:Events
    "Hackerspace Athens"
  [Deployable Greenhouse]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/deployable-greenhouse/
    "Deployable Greenhouse challenge"
  [Popeye on Mars presentation]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/spaceapps2013_Athens_Popeye-presentation.jpeg
  [Popeye on Mars]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/project/pom/
    "Popeye on Mars"
