Four weeks to change my universe.
#################################
:date: 2013-06-15 15:58
:author: khozeinkj
:category: OpenGov
:slug: four-weeks-to-change-my-universe

I'm here writing for NASA because of an internship program for my high
school. That program ends today, so I'll be talking about my time here -
telling my own story for once, as it were.

Anyways, as a senior of Staples High School, I have won, as a product of
my years of high school servitude, a month of freedom before graduation
to spend at any internship of my choosing. Through a wonderful amalgam
of kismet, effort, Todd Khozein, and Ali Llewellyn, I began my journey
with the NASA Open Innovation team.

I went in to this specific internship in a state of mild
fan-girl-freak-out (it's freaking NASA, man!). To be honest, I'm not
quite sure what I expected. My imagination was running so fast it
probably could've launched into space. All I knew was that there was the
International Space Apps Challenge, and that I would find some way to
dig into it with hands, feet, and elbows.

Find a way I did. Within the dawn of my first day as an official NASA
intern, I was enveloped in the Open Innovation Team. My passion is for
telling stories and working with data - it was decided I would become
the team's story-miner, responsible for discovering the stories behind
the data and participants of the Space Apps Challenge. (It's through
this position I discovered that blogging could be used for Actual
Important Business, and not just funny cat gifs.) In seriousness, it's
through being the team's story-miner that I discovered that my words are
a medium for spreading innovation. As a seventeen-year-old about to go
off to college to "make something of myself," it's a powerful
realization. My time at NASA transformed my language from a tool I have
used all my life to express my needs and opinions into a sword that I
can use to carve my way in life.

All I seemed to need was a push in the right direction, and a
conveniently placed WordPress account - it makes me think that maybe
this sword has been there all my life, but merely sheathed, and my
mentors and friends at open.NASA were the ones who only showed me how to
pull it out and let it gleam.

As I sit here at the end of my official time with NASA, I'm trying to
reflect back on what I've learned. I learned that working from home, as
I had to do from my small Connecticut residence, is both wonderfully
relaxing and strangely challenging. (No, Kiana, you can't watch 5
episodes of \ *Supernatural* in succession, you have calls to make.) I
learned through the patience of the small yet indomitable Sarah Rigdon
how to use Twitter and navigate the streets of Washington, D.C. in high
heels. From all-around genius Sean Herron, I saw that deadpan sarcasm
and technological savvy are traits to never be undervalued, and from
"Jedi Master" Nick Skytland that yes, it is possible to spend 11 hours
on a plane innovating and creating and still return excited and ready to
continue innovating. (Yeah, I didn't believe it at first either.)

From my now-forever mentor, Ali Llewellyn, the things I learned were
both simple and profound. Always discover as many paths to take as
possible, so that you can take the fabled "one less travelled." Hugs are
always appreciated. Just because I'm only a teenager doesn't mean I
can't change my own world, and just because it's my
own microcosm doesn't mean that it can't change the macrocosm we call
Earth, or even space. When you talk about meatballs at NASA, you're
probably not referring to Italian food. But most importantly, passion is
what keeps your work alive. Passion is what will revolutionize the
world.

Never let go of that passion.
