Title: Fragile Oasis: Connecting Space and Earth
Date: 2011-09-14 16:47
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: fragile oasis, ISS, ron garan, Social Innovation, soyuz, video
Slug: fragile-oasis-connecting-space-and-earth

Today is [Ron Garan][]’s last day in space. (on this mission, at least!)
After more than 5 months on orbit, he will join Russian crewmates
Alexander Samokutyaev and Andrey Borisenko as they undock from the
station's Poisk module to [return to Earth in their Soyuz TMA-21
spacecraft][].

They are set to land in southern Kazakhstan very late tonight, after
their return was delayed a week. (If you saw [Ron’s video from last
week][], you’ll remember how he felt about that delay…)

I saw another of Ron’s videos this week, an AMAZING [guided tour of the
ISS][]. He recorded a talk for the TED Global 2011 event sharing the
perspective he had on the earth from space and describing the wide range
of scientific experiments that are run on the station during missions.

One of his personal objectives is to use the unique orbital perspective
to put a focus on the challenges facing our planet. Ron has a strong
belief in the ability of social entrepreneurship and appropriately
targeted philanthropy to solve many of the problems we face here on
earth.

That means you and me – and that means NASA, too.

Because of this conviction, Ron started [Fragile Oasis][], an
interactive blog that grew into a larger community of shared projects…
and shared vision. The corps of bloggernauts shares their experience on
ISS and invites the public to share in their mission to improve and
protect life on earth. Community members can nominate, follow the
progress of, and vote for real projects making a difference in the areas
of communication, community, education, energy, environment, food,
health, peace, research, and water.

Space exploration has taught us this: **we have one Earth, and we need
to take care of it. **We face the same issues around the world and 240
miles up — we need clean water, nutritious food, purified air, and
healthy bodies, as well as means to generate and store power to sustain
where we live and work. We need to work together peacefully across
language and culture barriers with fair governance structures, and a
means to promote knowledge through education and scientific inquiry. We
have to make this work on the International Space Station - just like in
diverse communities all around the globe.

I’ll close with Ron’s own words about why he started the community:

*In June 2008, I had the privilege of flying on board the Space Shuttle
Discovery to the International Space Station, the most complex structure
ever built. I was also privileged to conduct three spacewalks during the
fourteen-day mission.*

*During the last one, with my feet anchored in clamps on the end of the
space station’s robotic arm, I was swept in a big arc over the top of
the space station and back.*

*At the top of the arc, I was 100 feet above the space station with the
Earth 250 miles below.*

*It was absolutely incredible to see this enormous orbiting space
station --  the tremendous achievement of sixteen diverse nations
working together on Earth to accomplish a goal in space.*

*Seeing humanity’s magnificent accomplishment against the backdrop of
our indescribably beautiful Earth 250 miles below took my breath away. I
wasn’t just looking down at the Earth.  I was looking at a planet
hanging in the blackness of space.*

*It was very moving to see the beauty of the planet we’ve been given.
But as I looked down at this indescribably beautiful fragile oasis, this
island that has been given to us and has protected all life from the
harshness of space, I couldn’t help thinking of the inequity that
exists.*

*I couldn’t help but think of the people who don’t have clean water to
drink, enough food to eat, of the social injustice, conflict, and
poverty that exist.*

*The stark contrast between the beauty of our planet and the unfortunate
realities of life for many of its inhabitants reaffirmed the belief I
share with so many. Each and every one of us on this planet has the
responsibility to leave it a little better than we found it.*

**Come learn, act, and make a difference.**

Go [here][] to see the Fragile Oasis photostream.

Go [here][1] to follow the Fragile Oasis bloggernauts on Twitter.

Go [here][2] to join the Fragile Oasis community.

 

 

  [Ron Garan]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/bloggernauts/Astro_Ron/
  [return to Earth in their Soyuz TMA-21 spacecraft]: http://www.nasa.gov/multimedia/videogallery/index.html?media_id=96666621
  [Ron’s video from last week]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/09/02/i’m-the-highest-person-feelin’-low/
  [guided tour of the ISS]: http://blog.ted.com/2011/07/14/the-orbital-perspective-ron-garan-from-the-iss/
  [Fragile Oasis]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/
  [here]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/fragileoasis/
  [1]: http://twitter.com/#!/FragileOasis
  [2]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/accounts/register/
