Title: Greener Cities for Greener Living
Date: 2013-06-06 18:22
Author: khozeinkj
Category: OpenGov
Slug: greener-cities-for-greener-living

I can confess that I have spent many an hour playing with Google Earth.

I'll descend into street view and roam around places I've never been,
or, more often than not, prowl the streets of my hometown. While fun,
sometimes I can't help but think that there ought to be some way for
this incredible technology to have practical applications for the
non-professional admirer, such as myself.

Luckily, a Space Apps team in Sweden had the same idea, and armed with
the multitudes of global climate data NASA has provided the world for
free, they set about making this idea a reality.

The NASA Greener Cities Project has three main goals. One, as previously
mentioned, is to make use of the volumes of data NASA has provided on
global climate data. Except Greener Cities goes a step further,
incorporating a platform that allows users to add to preexisting data
sets from their own experiences working with the land they monitor and
farm. This first goal works cooperatively with the second, which is to
support local agriculture in the general population. By making
information regarding soil condition and air quality more accessible,
Greener Cities encourages people to utilize the land around them for
farming, even in urban areas. Lastly, the NASA Greener Cities Project
hopes to spark an interest in the environment and programming in young
minds, by giving them a platform to explore such concepts through
revolutionizing the Greener Cities prototype.

The entire app was brainstormed and put together during the 2013 Space
Apps Challenge in Gothenburg, Sweden.
