Title: Hacking... for non-hackers.
Date: 2011-12-05 12:54
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: collaboration, hacking for humanity, RHoK
Slug: hacking-for-non-hackers

Random Hacks of Kindness is a community of innovation that brings
together subject matter experts with volunteer technologists to develop
open technology solutions to the global challenges. Collaborative teams
came together at more than 30 sites around the world to “hack for
humanity.” More than anything, RHoK is a glorious experiment in focus
and fast collaboration. What can you do with a roomful of
highly-skilled, highly-focused developers committed to make the world a
better place?

*Pretty much anything.*

The funny thing is, though, that while I love RHoK – I’m not a
developer, not able to code, have no technical skills when it comes to
software (other than the user experience!) I invite all my (also
non-coder) friends and colleagues to come and work with us at RHoK and
their answer is pretty inevitably "but I'm not a hacker..."

I tell them that we're all hackers - all it means is to take a unique
and unconventional approach to a problem, using what you have to make it
work. Usually I start talking about the Apollo 13 movie, which almost of
all them have seen.*Do you remember when we had problems on the
spacecraft? And the flight controllers brought in a pile of random stuff
that we had available in the capsule, and said "you have to figure out
how to make*this*fit into*that*using just*this*..." *

That's hacking. And NASA is amazing at it - which is part of why we
believe that the work that happens at RHoK is so valuable.

So how does RHoK engage a larger community than just developers? Here's
how to hack if you aren't a hacker:

• **Meet people!** The conversations and ideas that happen at RHoK are
every bit as important as the products produced. Go around and ask
people their stories. Find out what they do and why. You will come out
with new ideas and new potentials.

• **Be a good listener, and think about what experiences you have that
could apply to the approach to the problem.** Our center director at the
Johnson Space Center, a former astronaut, often talks about how valuable
it was when engineers, scientists, educators, and others joined the
fighter pilots in the astronaut corps. Different backgrounds and
approaches allowed them to solve problems more quickly and more
effectively. The same is true at RHoK.

• **Help organize, connect, and keep the team together.** RHoK is short,
and there is a lot to be done. Projects need names, partners, plans.
Help chunk out tasks and get them organized somewhere. Tell the story of
the problem – and the solution. Help document the process – it’s vital
to giving the project a future.

• **Do research.** Every project needs a ton of research, constant
searching of what is out there, what the needs are, how the data is
structured. Look around. Read, learn, get more info. I guarantee you
that your project will come out better for it.

We need *everyone* at RHoK. Developers come and build products – but
project managers and engineers and ideas people and marketing types and
technologists, they give the products a future.

Any stories from non-coders who participated in RHoK and found creative
ways to contribute to a team? Tell us your story!
