Title: Roll Up Your Sleeves, Get Involved, and Get Civic-Hacking
Date: 2013-01-22 15:42
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Tags: civic hacking, Code for America, National Day of Civic Hacking, OSTP, RHoK
Slug: hackforchange

*This is a cross-post from a White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy blog posted [here][]. *

This summer, on June 1-2, 2013, citizens in cities across the Nation
will join together to improve their communities and governments as part
of the National Day of Civic Hacking.

Civic Hacking Day is an opportunity for software developers,
technologists, and entrepreneurs to unleash their can-do American spirit
by collaboratively harnessing publicly-released data and code to create
innovative solutions for problems that affect Americans. While civic
hacking communities have long worked to improve our country and the
world, this summer will mark the first time local developers from across
the Nation unite around the shared mission of addressing and solving
challenges relevant to OUR blocks, OUR neighborhoods, OUR cities, OUR
states, and OUR country.

National Day of Civic Hacking is a call to action for anyone who wants
to make a positive impact on their town, city, and country. A coalition
of leading organizations, companies, and government agencies have banded
together to issue this challenge with the goal of promoting
transparency, participation, and collaboration among governments,
startups, and citizens. These partners will support Civic Hacking Day by
hosting activities across the country that invite anyone to become part
of the civic hacker community—whether you’re a newbie or an expert—and
by connecting people in person or online during the weekend celebration.

The event is taking place in conjunction with [Random Hacks of
Kindness][] and [Code for America][]'s Brigade meetings and is being
modeled after the [Innovation Endeavors][]’ Super Happy Block Party. A
number of Federal agencies, including NASA, the Census Bureau, and the
Department of Labor, are participating by offering specific challenges
for hackers to work during the event.

This is an opportunity for citizens in every town and city across the
Nation to roll up their sleeves, get involved, and work together to
improve our society by cultivating an ecosystem for innovation and
change. Activities are already being planned in Augusta, GA; Alexandria,
VA; Asheville, NC; Austin, TX; Bend, OR; Boston, MA; Chicago, IL;
Denver, CO; Detroit, MI; Grand Rapids, MI; Honolulu, HI; Lexington, KY;
Oakland, CA; Palo Alto, CA; Portland, ME; Milwaukee, WI; New York City,
NY; Philadelphia, PA; San Diego, CA; San Francisco, CA; Seattle, WA; and
Tucson, AZ.

Ready to get involved in YOUR community? You can learn more about the
National Day of Civic Hacking at:[http://www.hackforchange.org/][].

Brian Forde is the Senior Advisor to the U.S. CTO for Mobile and Data
Innovation  
Nicholas Skytland is the Program Manager of NASA's Open Innovation
Program

  [here]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2013/01/22/roll-your-sleeves-get-involved-and-get-civic-hacking
  [Random Hacks of Kindness]: http://www.rhok.org
  [Code for America]: http://codeforamerica.org/
  [Innovation Endeavors]: http://innovationendeavors.com/
  [http://www.hackforchange.org/]: %20http://www.hackforchange.org/
