Title: Hanging Out with NASA at SXSW Interactive 2014
Date: 2013-08-19 13:28
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Slug: hanging-out-with-nasa-at-sxsw-interactive-2014

NASA (and space exploration in general) has had a huge presence at the
SXSW Interactive festival for the past few years, and this year is no
different. Here is a list of space-related proposals (in no particular
order) that have been submitted for inclusion in this year’s festival.

The SXSW Panelpicker gives the community (you) an opportunity to submit,
review, comment and vote on the speaking proposals that they want to see
become a part of the event. If you see one that looks interesting to
you, make sure to cast your vote by Friday, September 6, 2013. Each
voter can vote once per proposal. Don't forget to leave a constructive
comment about what you do or do not like about the proposals you vote
on!

If you know of another space related proposal not listed here, please
let us know about it in the comments and we’ll add it here.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**That's Hot. Visualizing NASA
Climate Science Data**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/24689>

NASA isn't just sending rovers to Mars and astronauts to the
International Space Station. Find out how the space agency is studying
our home planet and why it's working to make the Earth science data it
collects understandable and meaningful to the public, policy makers and
media. See where NASA’s 16 Earth-orbiting satellites are right now, and
learn how their data can be viewed on your phone, often within hours of
being collected. Hear from communicators and designers working with
climate change scientists to put a planet's worth of information in your
hand via mobile apps, interactive websites, near real-time
visualizations, and social media. Plus, get a sneak peek at NASA
Earth-observing missions launching in 2014-2015. Earth is changing.
We're on it.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Sx(NxEx)SW: A Manifesto for
Global Collaboration**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/ideas/23711>

Creating change is at the heart of our technology community. Citizens,
software developers, and entrepreneurs from all over the world are
collaboratively creating, building and inventing new solutions using
publicly-released data, code and technology to solve challenges relevant
to our neighborhoods, our cities and our countries. We are excited to
tell the story of how you inspire people to work together across the
globe and across disciplines on a shared vision that emerges out of the
making culture. With experience leading some of the world's largest
hackathons, and diverse local events in music, science and STEAM, we
will show how you can make a collaboration work on a practical level but
more importantly how learning can be acted on locally after the events
over by keeping the community engaged over the long term.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Live From Space!**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/25456>

Remember when the public had to watch Walter Cronkite and the evening
news to learn what NASA was doing? Yeah, neither do we. Today, using
technology you can connect and collaborate with NASA and astronauts
directly from space.

During this session, we'll connect live with astronauts flying 240 miles
above the Earth at 17,500 mph. Ask about their mission and using
technology to communicate with us down here on the ground.

Additionally, you'll discover how NASA has fundamentally changed the way
it communicates with the public and how you can join the community of
space geeks from around the world.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**It's Not Rocket Science: UX
for Niche Communities**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/17123>

User experience design typically focuses on creating meaningful
experiences that will affect as many people as possible. Startups covet
reaching critical mass; success for larger companies is often measured
in tens of millions, and designs are created accordingly. But what if
your system is only for five users? What if you had to support a complex
and mature process that, if captured incorrectly, could lead to
astronomical disaster? Welcome to the world of UX design for NASA's
safety communities. In this talk, we'll give you a look into the design
team working on support tools for the ISS and future exploration
missions. The problem space may be space problems, but that doesn’t mean
the difficulties encountered are alien. In this session, we'll discuss
how working at a small scale affects research, testing, analytics, and
design. We'll show how human-centered design practices impact our
everyday work and how personal communication can save or destroy a
project of any size.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**(How to Prevent) Death by
Beadledom**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/24657>

If you a) are alive and b) have a job, it's likely that you have or will
find yourself working in or dealing with a bureaucracy. Oh, the joys of
being an adult! It is said that an efficient bureaucracy is the greatest
threat to liberty that we know. It is increasingly clear that the fate
of the universe will come to depend more and more on individuals like
you - slayers of bureaucracy - as the this dark force slowly permeates
every corner of our existence. We have no other choice but to do
something about it. This session will not only provide you with a
survival guide to keep yourself alive when beadledom is near but it will
also equip you with a strategic plan to cut through the red tape and
slay the ugliest of dragons.

The future of all humanity and the end of the world is at stake. We need
your help.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**How to Hack Hacking: Make
the world a [freespace]**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/23808>

Hackathons are getting out of control. However, this flood of 48 hour
frantic coding sessions are spawning national and global collaborations
resulting in not just new apps and projects (and a job opportunity in
the case of one of the speakers) but also lasting social change.

[ freespace ] was able to obtain a lease for a 14,000 sq ft building for
\$1 for the month of June, and showed the possibility of civic
improvement and community-building when people have a space to come
together in and share, collaborate, and create.

Despite this deluge of short, international shots of weekend
collaboration, desired social change needs a lot of time and the
inclusion of a cross section of planetary shareholders to occur. The [
freespace ] model of collaboration uses the power that the community
holds to transform a neighbourhood by activating empty space. Hear from
our panelists on how the [ freespace ] is helping to revolutionise
collaboration as we know it.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Hanging Out with
NASA**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/24655>

Hanging Out on Google+ with NASA has allowed you to get a unique
perspective on America's space agency. In this session, we'll explore
how Google+ Hangouts on Air have embedded the taxpaying public into
mission operations, breathtaking scientific discoveries, and agency
events like never before. From Hangouts on Air with Astronauts on the
International Space Station to preparations for flying a scientific
aircraft through a hurricane, NASA's use of Google+ Hangouts on Air have
brought out of the world experiences to large audiences. We'll take a
look at the keys to our success and the challenges we faced along the
way. So come, hangout with NASA!

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**First Signs: Finding Life on
Another Planets**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/17180>

The James Webb Space Telescope is the world’s most ambitious scientific
experiment. It is the successor to the iconic Hubble Space Telescope,
and will be 100x more powerful. The Webb Telescope, taller than a
four-story building, is designed to answer some of the most puzzling
scientific questions that humankind faces today. "How did the Universe
form?", "Is our Solar System unique?", and "Are we alone?" Webb will
answer these questions, and many more, by taking the deepest and
clearest pictures of the cosmos to date. But JWST is not alone. JWST
discoveries will rely on the findings of precursor telescopes like
Kepler, which has already discovered dozens of Earth-size planets, or
the upcoming WFIRST and TESS missions. Our panel will examine the
important contributions these telescopes will make in the search for
life in the Universe, and set the stage for how JWST could find the
first signs of life on another planet.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Entrepreneurs in
Bureaucracy: Military Innovators**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/18085>

Returning from a decade of war, emerging military leaders had been
required to innovate their way through countless cross-cultural
interactions while deployed overseas. Stateside life has proved
otherwise, as bureaucratic realities crush combat-tested,
entrepreneurial minded officers. Recognizing this, junior officers have
self-assembled to create ad hoc, informal advocacy organizations within
the military to promote outside-the-box solutions. Groups such as
Disruptive Thinkers and the Defense Entrepreneurs Forum have galvanized
lumbering military institutions to look to Start Up culture in
motivating the Millennial Generation.

This panel will explore the challenges faced and lessons learned by
junior officers and enlisted personnel pushing Information Age solutions
through an Industrial Age hierarchy. Their stories of being both
entrepreneurs and intrapreneurs will give valuable lessons to those
desiring to navigate and innovate within large, established
organizations.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Building Next-Generation
User Experiences at NASA**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/18449>

People imagine space software to be sleek and modern. But the tools NASA
use today look nothing like their Star Trek counterparts. Instead,
they're text-based, neon-colored, and complicated with age. This is a
shame, but it's also an opportunity. We're a small design team within
NASA, working to break this trend. We want the interfaces astronauts,
scientists, and astronomers interact with to be just as cool as we all
dream them to be. We've redesigned systems for the Mars Curiosity Rover,
the Kepler Space Telescope, and the Lunar Atmosphere and Dust
Environment Explorer. Join us in this session to see some of this work,
and to learn how we're pushing NASA forward to the touch and gesture
based future.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Are We Smarter than the
Dinosaurs?**</span>  
<http://panelpicker.sxsw.com/vote/22997>

66 million years ago, the dinosaurs had a very, very bad day thanks to
an asteroid at least 10 km wide. Since 1998, NASA has led the global
effort to find potentially hazardous asteroids, and has successfully
found 95 percent of the near-Earth asteroids larger than 1km within the
last 15 years. But the work is not over, and it will take a global
effort with innovative solutions through participatory engagement to
complete the survey of smaller, but still potentially hazardous
asteroids. NASA’s Grand Challenge to “find all asteroid threats to human
populations and know what to do about them” will employ open innovation
tactics “on steroids”. NASA has a rich history of using prizes and
crowdsourcing to engage more than the usual suspects in solving hard
problems. This session will explore how a “new NASA” and open innovation
can meaningfully engage people in space, provide funding opportunities
to developers, makers & entrepreneurs, and help us solve problems of
global importance.
