Title: How would you use a NASA API?
Date: 2012-10-09 15:53
Author: sherron
Category: OpenGov
Slug: how-would-you-use-a-nasa-api

One of the [major focuses][] of [President Obama's Digital
Strategy][] is to encourage the development and use of API's for service
delivery from government agencies. For those of you who are unfamiliar
with API's, this [Quora thread][] provides a good description. In short,
API's provide an interface for machines to talk with each other. A good
example would be the Disqus comments openNASA uses. By plugging in to
their API, we are able to offer their commenting mechanism on our site.
Simple, right?

API's offer a lot of promise for NASA. We gather a lot of data - about
15 Terabytes per day! That means we brought down almost 2 gigabytes in
just the time it took you to read this sentence. Future missions like
[Destiny][] could collected 24 Terabytes per day *all on their own*. As
Nick outlined [last week][], as we collect more and more data, figuring
out the best way to distribute, use, and reuse the data becomes more and
more difficult. API's are one way we can significantly lower the barrier
of entry to people from outside NASA being able to manipulate and access
our public information.

We're just getting started with APIs, our biggest being the [open data
API][] we launched just about one year ago. As part of the digital
strategy, we're committed to making more API's available
(or highlighting the awesome work other people have done to create
API's, like the folks at [ExoAPI][] who created one for Kepler exoplanet
data as part of the [International Space Apps Challenge][]). We need
your help, though! As we work to share the value of APIs with other's
around the agency, we'd love use cases and reasons why the public would
value being able to access NASA data via an API. Have an idea? Want to
create something, but need an easier way to access our data to use it?
Want a particular dataset API-ized? Let us know! Any comments or
feedback you can provide would be immensely helpful as we continue our
quest towards a more transparent, collaborative, and participatory
agency. Either give your comments below, or email them to me at
<sean.herron@nasa.gov> if you'd rather not share publicly. Thanks for
your help!

  [major focuses]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/egov/digital-government/digital-government.html#open-data-default
  [President Obama's Digital Strategy]: http://whitehouse.gov/digitalgov
  [Quora thread]: http://www.quora.com/APIs/What-is-an-API-in-layman-terms
  [Destiny]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dark_Energy_Space_Telescope
  [last week]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2012/10/04/what-is-nasa-doing-with-big-data-today/
  [open data API]: http://data.nasa.gov/api-info
  [ExoAPI]: http://exoapi.com/
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org
