Title: I am NASA: David Ham, Space Medicine Advanced Projects Engineer
Date: 2012-03-23 10:03
Author: dham1
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Advanced Projects, humans in space, I am NASA, life sciences, medicine, prototypes, Space Medicine
Slug: i-am-nasa-david-ham-space-medicine-advanced-projects-engineer

There's been a lot of talk about increased[intracranial pressure and the
flattening of the globe of the eye][]causing some major issues for
current and former astronauts.  It turns out, I know a lot about these
issues.  Let me be clear though, I'm not the medical expertise in the
team, but I'm part of the team, or should I say, part of one of the
teams, that's looking into what it is that's causing our astronauts
potential eyesight and long-term issues.  You don't see an M.D. after my
name, but I still play an integral role in trying to figure out what's
going on to our human bodies in space and some of the potential
countermeasures we might be able to employ once we figure all that out. 
I'm a small part of what NASA calls the Space Medicine Division, more
specifically I'm an employee of [Wyle][] - the prime contractor for
the Bioastronautics contract.  Within Space Medicine and within
[Wyle][1], I'm part of a small group of very talented, and very diverse
group of individuals that make up the Advanced Projects group.

I bet you're now wondering a few things, none the least of which is,
there's a [SPACE MEDICINE][]?  And ADVANCED PROJECTS?!  That sounds
crazy!  I can assure you, I'm not doing any alien autopsy kind of stuff
here, but I am a small part of what's going on behind the scenes to keep
our astronauts healthy, happy, and fully functional in space.   And the
most important part of this whole thing - I love my job!

Let me give you the 10-second 'elevator pitch' of what it is my group
does so we can just go back to why the heck I enjoy spending half my
life in the office, 5 days a week, all year round.

We are engineers, clinicians, and scientists working together to develop
requirements, protocols, procedures, software, and hardware to keep our
astronauts healthy.  We have a medical simulation laboratory (that I
helped to outfit!) and a prototyping lab.  We're capable of designing
and running experiments; building quick-turn prototypes; and just about
anything else that Space Medicine, or anyone else at NASA might need if
we have the expertise to do it.

So there it is, that's what we do.  Still confused?  Honestly, when it
comes down to it, we try to provide solutions and ways forward for the
problems and issues that come up in human space flight.  And it turns
out, a lot of the issues that come up in space flight actually have a
lot of analogues and terrestrial uses if you just continue to follow the
rabbit down the hole (sometimes not that far at all).  Therein lies one
of the greatest parts of my job - I get to have a small part of some of
the most cutting edge medicine out there, some of which you probably
won't even see for 10 years or more.  If you don't think [NASA affects
your lives daily][], and I mean, daily, then well, let me tell you more
about it --- because NASA's involvement colors our lives - even, or
rather, especially, in medicine.

What I'm doing from one day to another could change drastically and it
keeps me ever on my toes.  I could be representing our research team at
the opening of the new [BioScience Research Collaborative][] for
the[National Space Biomedical Research Institute][]one day and I could
be designing a test bed for a human test subject study the next. 
There's just so much to do and so very little resources sometimes, that
we get a lot of opportunities to grow and gain skills we would have
never thought possible.

For all of those out there who are still wondering what the heck Space
Medicine is, trust me, I was in the same boat before I got this job!  I
didn't have the slightest clue as to the existence of this division
until I quite literally came upon this job just doing what I love to do
- work with my hands and help others.  I'll leave the long story for
another time, but I found myself helping a very nice person with her
motorcycle issues, and found myself on the other end of a job offer. 
Fantastic.

I studied Electrical Engineering from the [University of Texas at
Austin][](yay!) and I started life in this world with a tough decision,
do I stay in [Austin][] and help design/sell microchips, or do I go back
to [Houston][]and play with [astronauts][](I'm sure the choice was much
more intricate than that, but I swear that's what the argument sounds
like inside my current memories).  Well, I don't know about the general
public, but playing with astronauts just sounded like something I
couldn't pass up and here I am, 8 years later, in wait... Space
Medicine?  Well ok!  I'm still 'playing with astronauts' AND somehow I
also get to say I work for NASA's Space Medicine!  And I'm an Electrical
Engineer of all things.  Luckily, I actually get to use those EE skills
quite a bit here - building and designing electronic circuits, hardware,
software, critical thinking and analysis.  But somehow I also get to
learn about the scientific process; design and run experiments and
studies; and work with some of the most amazing people this side of the
[moon][].

I wouldn't - and most certainly do not - discount the fact that I get to
work with an entire subset of amazing people [worldwide][]who genuinely
love the industry they work in.  For any of you who are just beginning
your careers or are not quite sure where you'll end up, do something you
believe in - something you love.  It really shows.  And it really
matters.  Believe me when I say I am nowhere near the top of the totem
pole in technical prowess, brainpower, accolades, etc., when it comes to
this industry, but I don't ever think this is a bad thing at all.  I
feel lucky to be a part of such a group of people who genuinely arrive
at work everyday because they know they want to be here.  These are
people that I collect inspiration from and learn from on a daily basis. 
The kind of people who work at NASA don't work here for the money.  We
show up to work because we believe in what we do and for me, I genuinely
love the people I work with, from the people I work directly with
everyday, to Human Resources, Purchasing, Shipping and Receiving,
IT, heck, everyone who has a hand in making what I do worthwhile - which
funny enough, includes YOU, the person reading this right now, because
this, this is YOUR [Space Program][].

  [intracranial pressure and the flattening of the globe of the eye]: http://radiology.rsna.org/content/early/2012/03/07/radiol.12111986.abstract
    "Journal of Radiology"
  [Wyle]: http://www.wyle.com/
    "Wyle, an integral part of NASA's Human Health and Performance contract"
  [1]: http://www.wyle.com/STE/Pages/default.aspx
    "Wyle's Science Technology and Engineering Group"
  [SPACE MEDICINE]: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/johnson/slsd/about/divisions/spacemed/
    "NASA's Space Medicine"
  [NASA affects your lives daily]: http://spinoff.nasa.gov/
    "Here are just some of the things that 'spin off' from NASA work, check it out, you'd be amazed. "
  [BioScience Research Collaborative]: http://brc.rice.edu/home/
    "The BioScience Research Collaborative"
  [National Space Biomedical Research Institute]: http://www.nsbri.org/
    "The National Space Biomedical Research Institute"
  [University of Texas at Austin]: http://www.engr.utexas.edu/
    "Cockrell School of Engineering, Hook 'em!"
  [Austin]: www.austintexas.org/ "good ol' Austin, TX, yeehaw y'all!"
  [Houston]: http://downtownhouston.org
    "Houston is a fantastic place! Here's a good place to figure out what's going on this week"
  [astronauts]: http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/Bios/
    "Astronaut Bios, some of the most amazing people you'll ever read about!"
  [moon]: http://solarsystem.nasa.gov/eyes
    "This is a super cool link with 3D flybys of our solarsystem... "
  [worldwide]: http://www.esa.int
    "The European Space Agency, just one of the worldwide partners with NASA"
  [Space Program]: http://www.youtube.com/user/NASAtelevision
    "Videos, because you know you love watching them"
