Title: Introducing Gov Webicons
Date: 2013-06-04 17:52
Author: sherron
Category: OpenGov
Slug: introducing-gov-webicons

I'm currently working on creating a website that needs NASA's logo (the
"meatball" -- don't ask) in the upper corner. With the upcoming swarm of
resolution independence due to high DPI screens and a multitude of
screen resolutions, just including a standard JPG or PNG image just
doesn't cut it anymore. SVG icons allow you to include an image that
scales as big or small as you need it, without any loss in image quality
(and often smaller than a comparable image in PNG or JPG).

After doing some research on SVG images on the web, I came across [FC
Webicons][], a set of social media icons presented in SVG with PNG
fallbacks for older browsers that don't support SVG images. As that code
is open source, I adopted it to present NASA's logo in a futuristic,
resolution independent way...but decided, hey, it was so much fun, why
stop there?

I'm happy to introduce today [Gov Webicons][], a set of 41 federal
agency icons that you can use on your website with just two lines of
code. Creating a dashboard of agencies? Include them all. Want to just
update your own agency's icon? Take out just the code and images you
need and have fun living in the future.

[Gov Webicons][] is open source and hosted on [GitHub][]. I'd love to
include additional federal agencies and can do so as long as there is a
publicly available SVG version of their graphic online. Any tips on
improving Gov Webicons or ideas for more agencies to add? Drop me a line
in the comments below, I'd love to hear your thoughts!

  [FC Webicons]: https://github.com/adamfairhead/webicons "FC Webicons"
  [Gov Webicons]: https://github.com/seanherron/Gov-Webicons
    "Gov Webicons"
  [GitHub]: https://github.com/seanherron/Gov-Webicons "GitHub"
