Title: Introducing data.nasa.gov
Date: 2011-08-30 13:14
Author: Nick Skytland
email: nicholas.g.skytland@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Slug: introducing-data-nasa-gov

In pursuit of its exploration mission, NASA has generated, collected and
compiled vast amounts of digitized data that has helped us better
understand Earth, other planets in our solar system, and the depths of
space through the eyes of satellites, telescopes, robots, and through
the cameras of astronauts. With each passing decade, advances in
technology made images clearer, the information coming back from space
richer, and the world smaller.

NASA has a long history of placing large amounts of data online for
members of the public to use. Since NASA’s inception, the agency has
publicly archived all of its data received from spacecraft projects,
including over 4TB of new Earth Science data each day, and continues to
make a large amount of this raw data open for public exploration.

NASA's commitment to open data expands the audience for the vast body of
knowledge captured in nearly 100 years of U.S. aeronautics and space
data. Developers, technologists, entrepreneurs, citizen scientists and
many others can contribute directly to the exploration of space and
Earth by helping to create new ways of looking at this data.
Additionally, by releasing information about administrative and
procedural information within NASA, researchers and analysts can
understand more about the inner-workings of NASA as well as allow our
own employees to better understand other functions of our Agency.

*NASA has a lot of data.* For example, just one mission – the [NASA's
Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS)][] – has
stored more then 3 petabytes of data since 2005 in a geographically
distributed mass storage system. This is the same amount as the
estimated total data size of the [Library of Congress][]. EOSDIS is now
downloading more than 7,000 GB a week.

As part of the [Open Government Initiative][], the agency is working to
improve accessibility to this data and incentivizing the use of
government data by citizens. In 2010, NASA provided three new datasets
and 18 other tools, widgets and catalogs to [Data.gov][] – but that was
just a start.

**To address the ever-increasing amount of tools and data catalogs that
are publicly available on NASA’s many websites, we have created this
directory of publicly available datasets. **The Open Data project, which
is part of the NASA Open Government Initiative, is intended to improve
access to NASA data. This [open data catalog][] is a continually-growing
listing of publicly available NASA datasets and includes information and
direct links to more the 500 datasets, and this is just a small
beginning. We've initially grouped the data into 9 broad categories and
have generously used tags to make the directory searchable.

<span class="Apple-style-span" style="color: #00ccff;">**Aeronautics:**
<span style="color: #000000;">Data related to the study, design, and
manufacturing of flying machines</span></span>

**<span style="color: #808000;">Earth Science:</span>** Earth science
and physical earth observations

**<span style="color: #003366;">Space Science: </span>**All types of
planetary or astronomical data; anything outside of the Earth and the
Earth's atmosphere

**<span style="color: #800000;">Life Science: </span>**Life sciences and
human data, including space medicine and human factors.

**<span style="color: #800000;">Climate:</span>** Atmospheric and
environmental data

<span style="color: #333333;">**Engineering:** </span>Engineering data,
charts, or specifications

**<span style="color: #ff6600;">Operations:</span>**<span
style="color: #ff6600;"><span style="color: #000000;">Mission operations
data relating to flight programs, mission control, or on-orbit
operations</span></span>

**<span style="color: #ff0000;">Institutional: </span>**Data related to
the historical and administrative functions of NASA as an Agency

**<span style="color: #cc99ff;">Catalogs: </span>**This category points
to external NASA catalogs on data.gov

We welcome public input on how to make this site better and encourage
everyone to help us identify additional high-value datasets to add to
the directory.  Most importantly, by providing access to government data
archives, we hope that citizens will be able to add value to raw data
through the development of new mobile and web applications that re-use
public data in innovative ways. We encourage you to explore and leverage
the *zettabytes* of NASA raw open data and share with us what you
discover and create!

  [NASA's Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS)]: http://data.nasa.gov/earth-observing-system-data-and-information-system-eosdis/
  [Library of Congress]: http://www.loc.gov/index.html
  [Open Government Initiative]: http://www.nasa.gov/open
  [Data.gov]: http://www.data.gov
  [open data catalog]: http://data.nasa.gov
