Title: ISERVE to serve: A visit to the NASA/USAID SERVIR Coordination Office
Date: 2012-04-30 16:41
Author: ssnabes
Category: OpenGov
Tags: earth observation, SERVIR, Social Innovation
Slug: iserve-to-serve-a-visit-to-the-nasausaid-servir-coordination-office

***It seemed to be good to be true.*** Last fall, my friend and OpenGov
colleague Ali Llewellyn shared with me that there was a group of NASA
employees and contractors supporting an initiative to connect satellite
resources to better the world. I had to know more.

A simple Google search uncovered a webpage for the project, known as
[SERVIR][] or, to serve, in Spanish. Here, I learned that the SERVIR
initiative integrates satellite observations, ground-based data and
forecast models to monitor and forecast environmental changes and to
improve response to natural disasters. This enables scientists,
educators, project managers and policy implementers to better respond to
a range of issues including disaster management, agricultural
development, biodiversity conservation and climate change. Principally
supported by NASA and the [US Agency of International Development][], or
USAID, a strong emphasis is placed on partnerships to fortify the
availability of searchable and viewable earth observations,
measurements, animations, and analysis.

***Impressive, yes, but how do they do it and who are the people
involved?***This question and others I pondered as I drove to the NASA
Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama to see the
[SERVIR][] coordination office and rapid prototyping facility firsthand.

Upon arrival, I was warmly greeted by the project director Dan Irwin, an
energetic and articulate man who has committed his career to serving his
passion for both those in need and leveraging the multitude of resources
NASA generates in our quest to uncover the unknown. Over the next hour I
had the honor of meeting his diverse team as they highlighted current
projects and past accomplishments which had caught the attention and
support of not only the head of NASA, but the US president and multiple
dignitaries on numerous occasions.

Spanning three continents, several countries, and affecting thousands of
lives, [SERVIR’s][SERVIR] reach is extensive and a result of
well-conceived, sustainable efforts. Their latest project, ISERV: The
ISS / SERVIR Environmental Research and Visualization System promises to
be yet another win for social good.

This tool, scheduled to launch to the international space station on
June 26th, is dedicated to assisting social innovators and emergency
responders to accessing much needed data and imagery within 3 hours of a
web or mobile app request. The ISERV *Pathfinder*is the first phase in
an envisioned series of Earth observing instruments designed to leverage
the unique attributes of the International Space Station in order to
provide high quality data for science and disaster response at
relatively low cost.

*Pathfinder*is a telescope that is ground commanded for pointing and
image acquisition. Individual commands or command scripts are uplinked
to the ISERV computer where they are executed at scheduled times. Data
frames are immediately stored aboard the ISERV computer, downlinked to
ground stations, and finally transmitted via Internet to the ISERV
Science Operations Center at MSFC’s National Space Science and
Technology Center (NSSTC) who then pushes it to the requester. When
complete, the ISERV suite could also include internal and external
optical sensors operating in the visible, near- and mid-IR portions of
the electromagnetic spectrum.

![worf][]

This effort was accomplished by a dynamic team of less than 20
individuals that comprise the Coordination Office, many of whom have
personally founded nonprofits and spent time living and working in the
regions they serve. Their offices are strategically located outside of
the Marshall campus, thus allowing the group to receive employees,
intern and volunteer support from individuals around the world who can
offer relevant local perspectives.

Two [SERVIR][] project regional operational facilities support the
Coordination Office in 1) Nairobi, Kenya, at the Regional Center for
Mapping of Resources for Development (RCMRD) and 2) Kathmandu, Nepal, at
the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development. A third
hub, located at the Water Center for the Humid Tropics of Latin America
and the Caribbean (CATHALAC) in Panama City, Panama, recently
“graduated” from the SERVIR system and is providing information on its
own. Each SERVIR facility is housed in an existing organization with a
regional mandate, and the project is primarily staffed and operated by
people from that region. Together, the SERVIR facilities form a broader
SERVIR network with exchange of data, knowledge, and experience among
the centers that transcends geographic and organizational boundaries.

***Connect with SERVIR***

While [SERVIR][] boasts multiple successes, the group seeks to expand.
Building and relying upon a network of collaborators is fundamental to
SERVIR. Beyond the sponsorship and active participation of NASA and
USAID, collaboration spans a number of other US government agencies and
projects, as well as partnerships with government agencies in the
regions in which SERVIR operates joint research with universities and
non-governmental organizations, and capacity building with a host of
specialized groups. SERVIR puts special emphasis on working with
national space agencies to improve the discovery and use of available
imagery. Collaboration also includes interaction with institutions that
play important roles in relevant global research and operational
activities (e.g., GEO, UN-SPIDER, International Charter, CIESIN, and
IRI). Operational and implementation partnerships, too, are critical and
have been established with SERVIR's regional centers (e.g., RCMRD and
ICIMOD) to deliver products and services and improve outreach to
different thematic communities

In the future, [SERVIR][] plans to augment data sets, collaborations,
and opportunities receive requests and observations. We invite you to
learn more about SERVIR, including opportunities to see the lab in
action, request information, download data, collaborate, or to intern as
a student researcher at: [http://www.servirglobal.net/][SERVIR].

*About the author: Samantha Lynne Snabes is an intern for NASA OpenGov
with interests in social entrepreneurship and human space exploration. *

  [SERVIR]: http://servirglobal.net/
  [US Agency of International Development]: http://usaid.gov/
  [worf]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/worf-300x297.png
    "worf"
