Title: Collective Genius for a Better World
Date: 2011-11-13 21:30
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: energy, KSC, LAUNCH, Nike, Social Innovation, State, sustainability, technology, USAID
Slug: launch-collective-genius-for-a-better-world

<div style="text-align: center;">

*“Launch creates an environment for people to think about*

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

*what they would want anyone looking at our planet to know about us –*

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

*that we respected our home and worked together every day*

</div>

<div style="text-align: center;">

*to ensure its beauty.”* -- Ted Eytan

</div>

<div>

I go out and talk about NASA quite often, and tell many parts of the
agency's long and amazing story. I frequently get to work with
fascinating people who are doing cool work, and indulge our mutual
passions about space exploration. Nevertheless, I have never been so
proud to work at NASA, so confident about the technology in our future,
so inspired to invest time, energy and passion - as I was this past
weekend at [LAUNCH][]. Technology collaborations are vital for us to
accomplish our mission - but it's the vision for transformation and the
commitment of the community that truly sets this partnership apart.

</div>

<div>

The [LAUNCH][1] program identifies innovations poised to create
transformational change in critical sustainability issues, connects
innovators to thought leaders and advisors, and then provides resources
and guidance in order to accelerate the implementation of the
technologies and projects. Founded in a unique partnership between NASA,
USAID, the Department of State, and Nike, LAUNCH: Energy focuses on
challenges that face us on Earth and beyond the Earth. The focus of this
year's challenge is energy, and the ten finalists were chosen for their
groundbreaking ideas for the provision of more sustainable energy
sources and improved access to energy for both developed and developing
world populations.

</div>

<div>

The LAUNCH: Energy Forum, which [brings together][] the innovators and
council members, took place at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida on
November 11-13. The forum sessions are designed to identify key
challenges and opportunities for the entrepreneurs' innovations in an
effort to accelerate these transformative efforts into the world with
impact and scale.

**Why was LAUNCH started, and what is unique about it?**  
NASA’s [Beth Beck][] writes [here][] about the WHY behind LAUNCH. She
explains that innovators and early adopters are comfortable making gut
decisions driven by what they believe about the world, rather than just
by what product is available for their use, while the early majority
doesn’t like to try something until someone else tries it first. LAUNCH
is about creating a fellowship of innovators who then create a space
that actually accelerates innovation... and changing the world. The
LAUNCH Council knows [what kind of world they want][] - now they are
helping make it possible one issue at a time.

**This year's LAUNCH: Energy featured innovations:**  
*Gram Power*: A micro/mini-grid solution for underserved communities
that utilizes modular battery storage technology, energy management
intelligence, and a pre-payment model. “Reliable power is a critical
ingredient for development. Gram Power creates access to this basic
resource, enabling 40% of the world population to get connected to the
global marketplace and become a part of the modern information economy,”
said founder and CEO Yashraj Khaitan.

[Hydrovolts][]: An affordable "Switchblade" turbine and "Flipwing"
turbine rotor that enables reliable hydroelectricity generation from
canals and other managed-flow water courses. “We’re changing the
paradigm of how water can answer our energy challenges,” founder and CEO
Burt Hamner notes.

*Turbococina*: A revolutionary clean and efficient wood combustion
cookstove. “This is a revolutionary wood combustion technology, which
manages to transform the kitchen from a smoke laden hazardous
environment into a clean and habitable place,” explained CTO and
President Rene Nuñez Suarez.

[Point Source Power][]: An economical fuel cell for emerging markets
that allows battery charging in cooking pits or fires. Co-founder and
CEO Craig Jacobson is committed to making power innovation culturally
relevant, easy to use, and financially accessible for 1.5 billion people
without electricity.

[The Solanterns Initiative][]: An initiative dedicated to replacing 1
million of Kenya's kerosene lanterns with solar powered lights and to
creating micro-entrepreneur jobs. COO Nina Marsalek emphasized how
microfinance collaborations can make solar lanterns accessible to
everyone.

[Powerzoa][]: A smart system that allows enterprise-level energy
managers to automate control of energy down to the appliance level,
stopping power waste. Powerzoa’s Sandra Kwak and Jamie Simon are
committed to enabling behavior change in the energy efficiency,

[Promethean Power Systems][]: A rural refrigeration system for
commercial cold-storage applications in off-grid and partially
electrified areas of developing countries. CEO Sorin Grama’s system
enables food suppliers to reliably store and preserve perishable food
items—such as milk, fruits and vegetables—without the need for expensive
diesel-powered generators.

[Thermofluidics][]: A pumping device that uses low-temperature heat to
generate fluid motion with very few moving parts. CEO Mark Bryant
explained the function of the NIFTE pump, where gravity, suction and
heat provide a better way to pump water... and just about anything else,
too.

[ITN Energy Systems][]: A revolutionary flexible electrochromic film for
windows that allows active control of the sun's transmitted light and
heat. CEO Ashutosh Misra said that “with flexible electrochromics, any
window can be modified so that flipping a switch changes its opacity to
let heat in when the building is too cold, or block that heat from
entering when it’s not needed.”

[NanoTune Technologies][]: A new generation ultracapacitor with five to
seven times greater energy storage capacity as conventional capacitors.
Creator and founder Frank Wang reminded the council of Elon Musk’s
statement that ultracapacitors will eventually replace batteries - and
how vital it is for us to be able to power our future innovations.

**What happened at the forum?**  
During the three day forum, innovators discussed their proposed
solutions to energy issues with LAUNCH Council members, who represent
the business, investment, international development, policy,
engineering, science, communications and sustainability sectors. The
sessions are designed to identify key challenges and opportunities for
the entrepreneurs' innovations in an effort to accelerate these
transformative innovations into the world with impact and scale.
Interested in the [exchanges][] between the LAUNCH Council and the
Innovators? Check out NASA’s [MindMapr][] to follow the conversations.

NASA is seriously committed to help propel promising innovations forward
that will address some of the world’s most pressing challenges. Along
with USAID, the Department of State, and Nike, we are creating a forum
that truly convenes genius that substantively changes the world. In the
closing ceremony, Point Source Power's Craig Jacobson pointed out that
"innovation is a person-to-person endeavor, and that's what LAUNCH
does." Solid [public-private partnerships][] enable entrepreneurs and
innovators to share what they were doing, find a path forward and build
a new network of collaborators. Every person in attendance
was [inspired][] about how to take ideas and make them reality. We saw
amazing technology - the fastest ultracapacitor, revolutionary pumps
that use free heat, the cleanest cook stove in the world - but it was
really about the **people**, and about the power of what we can
do **together**.

</div>

<div>

We walked through KSC's Apollo/Saturn V Center on the last night of the
event, and the film presentation noted that this was *"...one of those
rare moments where history is not just made, but destiny is embraced."*

</div>

<div>

**So say we all. **

</div>

<div>

For more information on LAUNCH, go to [launch.org][], read the [Recipe
for the Future][], or follow [@launchorg][] on Twitter.

</div>

  [LAUNCH]: http://www.floridatoday.com/article/20111111/NEWS01/311110049/Innovators-tout-10-energy-ideas
  [1]: http://launch.org
  [brings together]: http://twitter.com/#!/launchorg/status/135447047951233024
  [Beth Beck]: http://twitter.com/#!/bethbeck
  [here]: http://www.opennasa.com/2011/01/28/launch-we-know-why-do-you/
  [what kind of world they want]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/blog/2011/7/what-kind-world-do-you-want/
  [Hydrovolts]: http://hydrovolts.com/
  [Point Source Power]: http://www.pointsourcepower.com/
  [The Solanterns Initiative]: http://www.solanterns.com/
  [Powerzoa]: http://powerzoa.com/
  [Promethean Power Systems]: http://www.coolectrica.com/
  [Thermofluidics]: http://www.thermofluidics.com/
  [ITN Energy Systems]: http://www.itnes.com/
  [NanoTune Technologies]: http://www.nanotune.com/
  [exchanges]: http://twitter.com/#!/launchorg/status/135462100947578880
  [MindMapr]: http://mindmapr.nasa.gov/
  [public-private partnerships]: http://twitter.com/#!/RobAtState/status/135402456933867520
  [inspired]: http://twitter.com/#!/StateOfTrey/status/135496641837932545
  [launch.org]: http://launch.org/
  [Recipe for the Future]: http://launch.org/story/44/recipe-for-the-future
  [@launchorg]: http://twitter.com/launchorg
