Title: Making a difference in the water sector
Date: 2011-09-06 15:51
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Innovation, LAUNCH, SERVIR, water, Waterhackathon
Slug: making-a-difference-in-the-water-sector

Our scientists are innovating all the time on the problems and risks
that face human spaceflight. Recently, the [Water and Food Analytical
laboratory][] used ["teamwork, innovative thought, and old-fashioned
scientific detective work"][] to solve the issue of an increase in total
organic carbon (TOC) in the water screened on-orbit. We understand about
using new methods and new processes to figure out the answers.

Now we are also taking those answers and applying them to some
innovative *problems*.

[LAUNCH: Water][] was held at NASA Kennedy Space Center in March 2010. 
There the select 10 Water Innovators presented their innovations which
included transformative ideas, technology and research which addressed
water sustainability challenges in areas that included water efficient
vertical farming systems, low cost bacterial water testing, water
contaminant floating sensor network, carbon credit financed water
purification system, electro-chemical arsenic removal system and
evaporation-based underground irrigation technology among others.

LAUNCH is a vital example of [why talking about and practicing
innovation really does matter][].

[Waterhackathon][] is committed to challenging water experts and
software developers from around the world to co-create the innovative
solutions needed to help solve today's water problems. Waterhackathon
will provide open source solutions to resource management, point
monitoring and access mapping, real-time climate comparisons, and more.
This global event will be held in October 2011, offering experts,
software developers, and even entrepreneurs to use open data to address
real problems and make them freely available. NASA will use the
newly-developed [data.nasa.gov][] to help provide an easily-accessible
repository for NASA's climate and hydrology data.

Here are the current water problems listed for
Waterhackathon: <http://www.rhok.org/problem-definition-category/water>.

[SERVIR Global][] isn't specifically water-focused, but nevertheless
remains an essential resource for the water sector and anyone looking at
the data behind climate change and resource issues. NASA is providing
technical expertise to world challenges every single day.

*"[W]e are talking a whole-of-government approach to this issue. Beyond
the State Department, USAID, and the MCC, we are harnessing the
expertise of our technical agencies, the knowledge of the intelligence
community, and the best practices from those who have been working on
these challenges right here in the United States.*

*One example is a joint USAID-NASA initiative to create an earth
observation monitoring and visualization system in the Himalayas. The
glaciers in that mountain range serve as the water tower of Asia,
providing the water supply for more than 1.3 billion people. In
cooperation with nearby countries, USAID and NASA are developing a
system that will provide a clearer picture of water supply and demand
for the region and facilitate efforts to adapt to climate change.”* -
Hillary Clinton in a speech for World Water Day, Washington, DC, March
2010

Many parts of the US are currently in a [serious drought][]. Wildfires
burn through Texas while parts of the Northeast are  still severely
flooded. These events and tools are vital routes for NASA to collaborate
with unconventional partners, develop new software and hardware, and
apply the results of our research and exploration to some of the most
vital problems facing our fragile oasis.

*What other issues do you think NASA is well-positioned to help
address?*

  [Water and Food Analytical laboratory]: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/johnson/slsd/about/divisions/hefd/index.html
  ["teamwork, innovative thought, and old-fashioned scientific detective
  work"]: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/johnson/pdf/500495main_WAFAL-Innovation-Final.pdf
  [LAUNCH: Water]: http://launch.org/forum/1/water
  [why talking about and practicing innovation really does matter]: http://launch.org/story/30/why-talking-about-and-practicing-innovation-really-does-matter
  [Waterhackathon]: http://www.waterhackathon.org/
  [data.nasa.gov]: data.nasa.gov
  [SERVIR Global]: http://www.servirglobal.net/en/Home.aspx
  [serious drought]: http://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/mmb/nldas/drought/
