Title: Making #spaceapps physical
Date: 2012-03-10 11:58
Author: Ali Llewellyn
email: adllewellyn@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Tags: baking, Dundee, hacking for humanity, maker camp, physical apps, space apps, STEM, university
Slug: making-spaceapps-physical

*The Open Government Initiative is excited to invite David McGloin, a
physicist in the Electronic Engineering and Physics Division at the
University of Dundee, Scotland, to share about their recent work to help
shape the upcoming [International Space Apps Challenge][]. His primary
work is concerned with optics and the application of optics to
environmental and biophysical problems. First enthused about physics by
space shuttle launches and finding about how stars work, he is excited
to be part of the NASA Space Apps Challenge. You can follow David on
Twitter at [@DundeePhysics][].*

 

Did you hear the one about the product designer, the jeweller and the
physicist? Oh, and NASA too.

My colleague Jon Rogers ([@iledigital][]) told me that he had just ‘had
the Skype of a lifetime’. **I guess this is the [NASA][] effect**. NASA
holds, for many, the sense of adventure and exploration that is often
lacking from our everyday lives. For many kids NASA and the space
programme are an inspiration that lead them to a wide variety of careers
in science and engineering as well as being a dream, that one day they
could end up in space. And now NASA wanted to work with us!

Jon is a product designer at the University of Dundee and runs our
successful [MSc in Product Design][]. His [research emphasis][] is
on *[physical apps][]*, which as he explains it are a way to take
information or data from the internet and connect that to a real world
device. He will be showcasing examples of this work making use of [paper
circuitry][] (and how it can save the music industry(!) )
at [SxSW][] this week. Physical apps are a way of making the web
physical.

NASA’s [Apollo][] rockets made use of computers that are puny in terms
of the processing power, storage capacity and memory of your average
smartphone. And what do we use this awesome power for? To send the odd
email and play Angry Birds. Since the 1960’s NASA has invested huge
amounts in space exploration and in the novel technology to work in the
harshest of environments, and in doing so has collected huge amounts of
data and made many significant technical innovations. They now want to
harness these archives to try and make “practical applications that
benefit humanity”.

**And they want everyone to help.** Can you, as a citizen of the world,
make some contribution to the big challenges that face the world? Does
that seem daunting? By working together with similarly concerned
citizens from throughout the world, NASA believes that by sharing your
expertise you can make a difference.

<div id="attachment_327">

[![][]][]

*Powering lasers with an Arduino. Can you 'make' a difference?*

</div>

NASA invited people to make suggestions about grand challenges that
could be solved making use of their data and expertise. Perhaps
unsurprisingly the initial tranche of suggestions were software based.
To help define some more “physical” ideas NASA asked Dundee for some
help. **We want to make, rather than just code.**

The beauty of a University environment is that it is a microcosm of the
world outside, with a huge range of skills and outlooks, races and
creeds all crammed into a small campus. This means we are ideally suited
to see what happens when people with different skill sets come together
and work on problems. Jon and I had been looking for something to work
on for a while, but it’s not always obvious what a product designer and
an optical physicist can do for each other, but with space and some
shared childhood dreams we were able to see how our mutual expertise
could try and help define what physical apps could mean for NASA.

Oh, and I am forgetting the jeweller. [Sandra Wilson][] ([@Gold1][])
designs jewellery at the University’s [Duncan of Jordanstone Art
College][]. This is not ordinary jewellery though, it’s linked into
ideas about identity and we thought that a physical app, at it’s most
straightforward would be something you could wear – *you can wear
‘space’*. Looking a bit further ahead, jewellery makes it fairly
straightforward to embed technology within it, but the challenge might
be how to power that device and how to connect it to a data source?

Our first port of call was to the MSc Product Design students and we set
them the task of thinking about what data is and how this can be
visualized in a physical manner, and also about how ideas of space link
back to life on Earth. Where do the challenges lie? The full list of
ideas will be live on the [space apps challenge page][], but here’s one
to give you a flavour of what a space physical app might be.

A Maker Faire is a celebration of people making their own stuff, usually
with a technological bent, but more generally it’s all about having
ideas and turning them into a reality. Making stuff. Making stuff for
fun, for everyday use, maybe even for profit.

We want you to try and make stuff – some of that will be grand theme and
grand idea type challenges, but we want to start with something a bit
more homely. Can we bring a little piece of home to astronauts in
the [International Space Station][]. If you are stuck up in a confined
space whizzing round the earth for months, if not years, at a time, you
are going to miss the odd home comfort. Can humans survive on trips to
further flung reaches of the solar system without the odd reminder of
home?

We thought that little says ‘home’ like home baking. With yeast being a
model organism for many experiments, and as it often finds itself in
zero-g conditions, it seems a natural extension to try and make
something with it: bread. How will bread bake in space? And a key
technological challenge is, since baking takes a lot of energy, can we
device new low power techniques that can be applied on the Space
Station, and then ultimately in the new low power homes back on Earth
that we will need in the future?

We call this challenge **\#bakerfaire**.

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/37805546?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" frameborder="0" width="400" height="215"></iframe>

[\#bakerfaire][] from [jon rogers][] on [Vimeo][].

We call on makers, bakers, bread lovers, food scientists, product
designers, electrical engineers and tinkerers everywhere to come and
develop physical apps and hardware as part of the NASA International
Space Challenge. Come help us bring home into space, and in doing so,
help us shape a better planet.

P.S. If anyone fancies making me a little device that warns when the ISS
is about to pass overhead, that’s the simple physical space app that I
would really love!

*  
*

  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [@DundeePhysics]: https://twitter.com/#!/dundeephysics
  [@iledigital]: https://twitter.com/#!/ileddigital
  [NASA]: http://www.nasa.gov/
  [MSc in Product Design]: http://productdesign.dundee.ac.uk/msc/
  [research emphasis]: http://productresearch.dundee.ac.uk/
  [physical apps]: https://mozillafestival.org/tag/physical-apps/
  [paper circuitry]: http://www.novalia.co.uk/
  [SxSW]: http://austin.lanyrd.com/ileddigital
  [Apollo]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/apollo/
  []: http://davidmcgloin.files.wordpress.com/2012/03/circuitcrop.jpg?w=336&h=252
    "Arduino circuit"
  [![][]]: http://davidmcgloin.files.wordpress.com/2012/03/circuitcrop.jpg
  [Sandra Wilson]: http://www.dundee.ac.uk/djcad/staff/sandrawilson/
  [@Gold1]: https://twitter.com/#!/Gold1
  [Duncan of Jordanstone Art College]: http://www.dundee.ac.uk/djcad/
  [space apps challenge page]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenges
  [International Space Station]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/main/index.html
  [\#bakerfaire]: http://vimeo.com/37805546
  [jon rogers]: http://vimeo.com/user1789110
  [Vimeo]: http://vimeo.com
