mWater
######
:date: 2013-02-21 11:31
:author: agllewel
:category: OpenGov
:tags: development, mLab, RHoK, space apps
:slug: mwater

*How can space technology have implications for international
development? We invited `mWater`_ team member Amanda Sperber to share
mWater's amazing story and this case study on applying the work we do in
space to improving life on Earth. *

There’s a real way to take the experience and perspective gained from
space exploration and apply it to development on earth.

When John Feighery, a co-founder of the `NASA JSC chapter of Engineers
Without Borders`_, was in El Salvador working to create a safe water
source in the area, he was disturbed to note there was no capacity for
monitoring the water after the source was created. Microbiology labs are
not cheap to build.

At the time, John was the lead engineer for air and water monitoring on
NASA’s International Space Station and was influenced by his wife Annie,
a behavioral health scientist working in global health. They noted the
striking similarities between Annie’s work in impoverished communities
and his in space. As John saw in El Salvador, when it comes to water
safety the extreme environments that define both outer space and very
poor places are quite analogous. Both are far from microbiology labs and
trained technicians. This means short of setting up (and then
maintaining) a lab, there’s no way to regularly monitor the water. The
remote water monitoring system that John had designed for ISS was ideal
for monitoring water sources back on Earth.

Merging Annie’s work in global public health and John’s in sanitation,
the couple founded `mWater`_, dedicated to innovating open source
technologies for water and sanitation in low resource communities.

In 2011 they teamed up with software engineer Clayton Grassick at the
`Random Hacks of Kindness`_ Hackathon in Montreal. Unimpressed with the
issues originally put forth for the weekend, Clayton searched the
archives and came upon the petrifilm bacteria counting problem John
proposed. Clayton won the Hackathon by making John and Annie's idea a
reality, writing the code for what would become mWater’s mobile phone
app. Since them, using his twenty years of computer science experience,
he has continued to develop the software conceived that weekend to
produce the mWater client app. In the summer of 2012, the water test and
app underwent a rigorous validation study in Mwanza, Tanzania funded by
UN Habitat.

mWater demonstrates the immense opportunities in which technology can be
harnessed to vastly impact development. Diarrhea and waterborne diseases
including cholera and dysentery are an enormous cause of unnecessary
suffering and mortality in the global south. According to the World
Health Organization, waterborne diseases are the number of cause of
death, with 3.4 million recorded in 2009. A United Nations commissioned
assessment recorded that 4,000 children die each day from these
preventable diseases caused by exposure to unsafe water. At the Rio + 20
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in June 2012, it
was acknowledged that universal access to clean drinking water is a
basic human right and added to the text of *The Future We Want.*

The mWater app is connected to a phone’s onboard camera, and users can
take a picture of the test kit’s petrifilm plate. Within minutes it can
be established if the water is safe to be used even to wash one’s hands,
let alone to drink and use for cooking. The results are then uploaded to
a cloud-based database, tagged on the mWater map. People that live in
the area and who can access a smartphone or the Internet are able to
check a water source's quality. This allows them to find the safest
water possible and doesn’t require a laboratory or even electricity.
Water managers and donors are able to monitor a water source’s ongoing
function from afar.

As Annie explains, this is game changing in two ways. First, she says,
“a lot of times when people monitor a water source, the information gets
lost in a paper trail.” Nothing is actually accomplished. Secondly,
mWater allows users to track a water source’s safety over time. “mWater
can create a longitudinal water monitoring system,” Annie says, “this is
totally unprecedented.” She laughed and added, “We aspire to be the Yelp
for water, a place for people to make informed water choices.” Both
official and anecdotal inputs on the water source can be included.

mWater is an open source platform. The team thinks it’s unethical to
study a person’s water source and not freely provide them with
information. Clayton has created an open API that can be adapted for
other challenges in low-resource regions. This December, mWater
co-hosted the Global `Sanitation Hackathon`_ and the wining NYC team
adapted mWater’s API to create a tracking system for open sewage flows.

mWater’s app launched in alpha this past August and in beta in December.
In its alpha stage about 800 people worldwide downloaded it and began
using mWater to record water quality results. The app is a free download
on the Google Play Store for Androids and can be accessed on any
smartphone platform through its browser. The team plans to offer a
native iPhone app later this year. Right now the tool’s main users are
academics and researchers and mWater is currently working with the
Rwanda Ministry of Health and UN Habitat to pilot the app with health
workers in Rwanda.

`mWater`_ is a wondrous example of the capacity of technology and the
free-flow of data to tangibly impact public health.

|John testing on tank in comalapa|

.. _mWater: http://mwater.co/
.. _NASA JSC chapter of Engineers Without Borders: http://www.ewb-jsc.org/
.. _Random Hacks of Kindness: http://www.rhok.org/
.. _Sanitation Hackathon: http://www.sanitationhackathon.org/

.. |John testing on tank in comalapa| image:: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/John-testing-on-tank-in-comalapa.jpeg
   :target: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/John-testing-on-tank-in-comalapa.jpeg
