Title: NASA Joins Yahoo for 'Flight Readiness Review' of Space Apps Challenges
Date: 2012-03-23 16:49
Author: kpaintin
Category: OpenGov
Tags: challenges, collaboration, space apps, yahoo
Slug: nasa-joins-yahoo-for-flight-readiness-review-of-space-apps-challenges

The International Space Apps Challenge is a unique event unlike anything
we’ve done before.  Teams of passionate people from around the world
will be working together on April 21st and 22nd to create solutions to
challenges for which they would have previously had no connection.  How
do you prepare for an event like that?  How do you take challenges that
deal with space, technology and society and prepare them to be worked by
people who are simply passionate to volunteer their talents to see what
they can accomplish on the challenges placed before them?

We decided this was a rather large task, and so we enlisted the help of
some very dedicated Yahoos.  (Yes, *Yahoos*.)  On April 10, 2012, the
Yahoo! Developer Network in the California Bay Area will be hosting an
International Space Apps Challenge “prelaunch” event.  This will be the
kickoff for the creating, building and inventing that will happen during
the Apps Challenge itself.  The team of Yahoo Developers and other
volunteers will take time to go through the challenges and then work in
teams to develop them into strong problem statements to be worked on the
weekend of the event itself.  Ultimately we hope to identify data and
information that may not be supplied but can be collected prior to the
Challenge, and have input for possible solution starting points.  In
space terms, it’s our “flight readiness review” of the challenges.

The International Space Apps Challenge will be a collaborative event
involving individuals from around the world.  We are excited that we
have some of those incredibly talented individuals so close-by and
excited to support the mission of the Challenge.  If you are interested
in joining the Yahoo Developer Network pre-event you can visit the
registration page at <http://nasaeventatyahoo.eventbrite.com/>
