Title: NASA Challenges featured at Random Hacks of Kindness
Date: 2012-05-29 14:31
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: challenges, RHoK, space apps
Slug: nasa-challenges-featured-at-random-hacks-of-kindness

*One of the key elements of the Random Hacks of Kindness Sustainability
Project announced earlier this year was to create a [featured problem
set][] for each RHoK event going forward that provides a series of
highly curated, well-defined problems that have clear sponsors and clear
paths to sustained impact. Stay on top of the latest additions for RHoK
2012 at our [Featured Problem Set Page][]. Here we detail NASA's two
focused challenges for the RHoK community, both building off of the
success of the [International Space Apps Challenge][]. *

  
**[Complete View from ISS][]**

**The Problem:** We have an amazing amount of crew imagery coming down
daily from the International Space Station - time lapse images, star
trails views, and spectacular photos that give citizens of Earth an
unparalleled perspective of their home planet. Astronaut photography is
a vital resource that NASA is committed to making accessible and useful
internally and externally.

Our goal is to build an immersive view from the ISS in any direction,
nadir, limb-ward and star-ward, as the views are available. We want to
create a mechanism to allow organizing/tagging/crowdsourcing of
information that would improve the usability of the imagery for science
and educational projects. We want to create an OpenStreetMap-type
database that’s actually an “OpenStarMap.”

**The Impact:** The impact of this app is limited only by your
imagination. You are providing everyone an opportunity to see and engage
with our home planet with a perspective so far only available to a few
hundred human beings. Who knows how the orbital perspective could shape
life for the rest of us?

**After RHoK:** The Human Exploration Science Office is committed to
these goals and the accessibility of these images. Apps that meet the
requirements in a clean and easy-to-use way have a likelihood of
adoption in NASA’s citizen science/open data efforts.

Learn more about the project specifics [here][].

<p>
<script type="text/javascript" src="//speakerdeck.com/assets/embed.js" data-id="4fc514c70608eb002201bbed" data-ratio="1.3333333333333333"></script>
</p>
**[PhoneSat: Android Apps for Space][]**

**The Problem:** This challenge is a chance to be a part of
kick-starting the public’s access to space – and using open source COTS
technology to do so. PhoneSat is a low-cost Cubesat using a Google Nexus
Smartphone running the open source Android platform as the main
processor. Our challenge for you is to create an Android App that
utilizes PhoneSat’s capabilities.

The App that you create should be designed to run during a dedicated
mission phase lasting approximately one 90 minute orbital period; you
could choose to use any portion or all of this time. During this phase
you would have access to all of the phone sensors: magnetometer,
gyroscope, and accelerometer in addition to the PhoneSat sensors and
controls: thermometer, reaction wheels, magnetorquer boards, and solar
panel current.

There are unique challenges to developing apps and receiving data in a
microgravity environment. These conditions will alter the performance of
PhoneSat’s sensors. Half of your testing orbit will be in eclipse, which
will be responsible for a thermal cycle. Atmospheric drag will be the
primary source of attitude disturbance. The Earth’s magnetic field at
the orbit altitude would have a similar magnitude to that at sea level.
Finally, the satellite may be tumbling with the determination of an
approximate attitude.

Are you up for the challenge?

**The Impact:** These apps have the potential to impact the burgeoning
commercial space industry and be an early influencer in approaches to
citizen science in microgravity. This is relatively unexplored territory
– and you get to be a part of it.

**After RHoK:** The PhoneSat Project team, based at the NASA Ames
Research Center, is committed to engaging citizens in their efforts to
test and fly these apps in space. Apps that meet the requirements in a
creative and effective way are likely to have an opportunity to fly in
space in the near future. More info on the plans for the project are
found here: <http://open.nasa.gov/plan/phonesat/>

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/43050975" frameborder="0" width="500" height="281"></iframe>

 

**Interested in joining us for next weekend's RHoK events? [Sign up
here][] to participate at an event near you.**

**Interested in interning for RHoK? [Learn more here.][] **

  [featured problem set]: http://www.rhok.org/blog/rhok-featured-problem-set-june-2012
  [Featured Problem Set Page]: http://www.rhok.org/FeaturedProblems
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [Complete View from ISS]: http://www.rhok.org/problems/complete-view-iss
  [here]: https://speakerdeck.com/u/adllewellyn/p/complete-view-from-iss
  [PhoneSat: Android Apps for Space]: http://www.rhok.org/problems/phonesat-android-apps-space
  [Sign up here]: http://www.rhok.org/events
  [Learn more here.]: http://www.rhok.org/blog/attention-university-students-want-join-rhok-team
