Title: NASA Tournament Lab's Big Data Challenge
Date: 2012-10-03 15:06
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: big data, NTL, Open Innovation
Slug: nasa-tournament-labs-big-data-challenge

NASA, the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy's
Office of Science announced on Wednesday the launch of the [Big Data
Challenge][], a series of competitions hosted through the [NASA
Tournament Lab][] (NTL).

The Big Data Challenge series will apply the process of open innovation
to conceptualizing new and novel approaches to using "big data"
information sets from various U.S. government agencies. This data comes
from the fields of health, energy and Earth science. Competitors will be
tasked with imagining analytical techniques and software tools that use
big data from discrete government information domains. They will need to
describe how the data may be shared as universal, cross-agency solutions
that transcend the limitations of individual agencies.

"The ability to create new applications and algorithms using diverse
data sets is a key element for the NTL," said Jason Crusan, director of
the Advanced Exploration Systems Division at NASA Headquarters in
Washington. "NASA is excited to see the results that open innovation can
provide to these big data applications."

"Big Data is characterized not only by the enormous volume or the
velocity of its generation but also by the heterogeneity, diversity and
complexity of the data," said Suzi Iacono, co-chair of the interagency
Big Data Senior Steering Group, a part of the [Networking and
Information Technology Research and Development Program][]. "There are
enormous opportunities to extract knowledge from these large-scale
diverse data sets, and to provide powerful new approaches to drive
discovery and decision-making, and to make increasingly accurate
predictions. We're excited to see what this competition will yield."

The competition will be run by the [NTL][NASA Tournament Lab], a
collaboration between NASA, Harvard University and TopCoder, a
competitive community of digital creators. The [TopCoder Open Innovation
platform][] and process allows U.S. government agencies to conduct high
risk/high reward challenges in an open and transparent environment with
predictable cost, measurable outcomes-based results and the potential to
move quickly into unanticipated directions and new areas of software
technology. [Registration is open][Big Data Challenge] through Oct. 13
for the Ideation Challenge phase, the first of four idea generation
competitions in the series.

  [Big Data Challenge]: http://community.topcoder.com/coeci/nitrd/
  [NASA Tournament Lab]: http://www.nasa.gov/directorates/heo/ntl/
  [Networking and Information Technology Research and Development
  Program]: http://www.nitrd.gov/
  [TopCoder Open Innovation platform]: http://www.topcoder.com/
