Title: NASA Celebrates the United States’s Entry into the Open Government Partnership 
Date: 2011-09-20 14:56
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Tags: apps, citizen science, Open Data, Open Government Partnership, Open Source
Slug: nasa-celebrates-the-united-states-entry-into-the-open-government-partnership

On his first day in office, President Obama signed the [Memorandum on
Transparency and Open Government][], launching the Open Government
Initiative and making openness a high priority for the Administration.
Over the past two years, federal agencies have worked hard to make
information about how government works more accessible to the public, to
solicit citizens’ participation in government decision-making, and to
collaborate with all sectors of the economy on new and innovative
solutions to difficult issues of national importance.

In support of the Open Government Initiative, NASA released its [Open
Government Plan][] on April 7, 2010, announcing more than 150 milestones
related to integrating Open Government into the agency’s programs and
projects. In April 2011 we released a new [infographic][] and
[dashboard][] to communicate the progress in becoming more transparent,
participatory, and collaborative. In August, NASA created the new
<http://open.nasa.gov> blog to highlight the agency’s Open Government
success stories. The site is a collaborative blog for the open
government community to highlight the ways that transparency,
participation, and collaboration are being embraced throughout the
agency. Earlier this month, in order to improve access to the
ever-increasing number of NASA tools and datasets, we created
<http://data.nasa.gov> – a directory of NASA datasets that includes
direct links to more the 1,000 datasets grouped in to [nine broad
categories][]. A stated goal of Open Government at NASA is to create new
opportunities to directly engage developers, technologists,
entrepreneurs, citizen scientists and interested citizens in NASA space
exploration mission.

Today, President Obama signed the [Open Government Partnership][]
declaration - a new, multilateral initiative that aims to secure
concrete commitments from governments to promote transparency, empower
citizens, fight corruption, and harness new technologies to strengthen
governance. An open and good government is much more than releasing
information. It is about harnessing the skills and talents of the
American people, establishing greater collaboration among Federal
agencies, and ensuring that the taxpayers’ money is wisely spent.

The Open Government Partnership will strengthen the momentum towards
more open and accountable government that we see emerging around the
globe. By participating in the Partnership, the U.S. will build on the
foundation that we have established through the Open Government
Initiative, and identify next steps toward promoting the President’s
commitment to transparency, participation, and accountability in
government.

In celebration of the declaration, NASA is recommitting itself to the
principles that the President announced on his first day in office and
exemplified in our work since then. NASA will play a key role in the
[United States Domestic Plan][] by launching the [International Space
Apps Challenge][] to help improve public services and promote innovation
through collaboration. The International Space Apps Challenge is an
innovative international collaboration that accelerates the development
of solutions focused on making government better and addressing critical
issues on our planet, including (but not limited to) weather impacts on
the global economy and depletion of ocean resources. NASA's strategic
plan calls for international collaboration and challenges NASA to
explore together by engaging citizens, harnessing the spirit of
innovation, and developing crucial research and technology capabilities
that will be required for us to move beyond low Earth orbit. The
International Space Apps Challenge provides an opportunity for
government to leverage the expertise and entrepreneurial spirit of
citizen explorers to help address challenges of global importance. The
event embraces the concept of 'open innovation' to improve performance,
inform decision-making, encourage entrepreneurship, and solve problems
more effectively.

We are currently collecting ideas for potential problem statements
related to the International Space Apps Challenge and encourage you to
share your ideas. We look forward to working together to help solve some
of the world’s toughest challenges using space data and technology!

For more information, visit <http://open.nasa.gov/appschallenge>.  
For ongoing updates, follow @[intlspaceapps][] on Twitter.

  [Memorandum on Transparency and Open Government]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/TransparencyandOpenGovernment
  [Open Government Plan]: http://www.nasa.gov/open/plan
  [infographic]: http://www.nasa.gov/open/infographic.html
  [dashboard]: http://www.nasa.gov/open/statusdashboard.html
  [nine broad categories]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/08/30/introducing-data-nasa-gov/
  [Open Government Partnership]: http://www.opengovpartnership.org/
  [United States Domestic Plan]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/us_national_action_plan_final_2.pdf
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://open.nasa.gov/appschallenge
  [intlspaceapps]: http://twitter.com/intlspaceapps
