Title: National Day of Civic Hacking 
Date: 2013-05-02 15:52
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Slug: national-day-of-civic-hacking

This [June][], thousands of people around the United States will join
together for the first ever [National Day of Civic Hacking][June].

The national event will take place June 1-2, 2013, in \~80 cities across
the nation. The initiative is a united effort to connect citizens and
government in a partnership focused on improving people’s daily lives
through technology. This event will bring together techies,
entrepreneurs, do-gooders, activists and others like you from across the
nation to collaboratively create, build, and invent tools using
publicly-released data. We hope to create solutions that are directly
relevant to our neighborhoods, our cities, our states and our country.

We are excited about partnering with 14 other government agencies as
well as a number of other organizations and organizers everywhere on the
National Day because we believe it is an opportunity to once again
leverage the expertise and entrepreneurial spirit of those outside
federal, state and local government to drive meaningful,
technology-based solutions for government and society. It demonstrates
what's possible when we all work together to strengthen our society and
our lives. National Day of Civic Hacking will bring innovation out of
your neighbors and you. It is meant to make innovation within reach
rather than something you hear about in tech-savvy cities.

National Day of Civic Hacking brings together communities together over
two days, but helps you share and communicate with communities across
America about issues you care about most. Anyone can participate to
collaboratively create, build, and invent new solutions using
publicly-released data, code and technology. You don’t have to be an
expert in technology, but you do have to care about your neighborhood
and community to participate.

We encourage you to find an event in your city and to get involved If
there is not an event planned near you, start one! You can visit
hackforchange.org and see all the event details as well as the
challenges that we'll be working on, including the challenge offered by
NASA - "[*We Love Data*][]." Our [challenge][*We Love Data*] recognizes
that government agencies like NASA have vasts amounts of information
that can be used to improve our lives. We want to see what you can do
with space data to empower citizens everywhere in their daily lives
while at the same time connecting them with our nation's exploration and
aeronautics missions.

For more information visit <http://hackforchange.org>.

  [June]: http://hackforchange.org
  [*We Love Data*]: http://hackforchange.org/challenge/we-love-data
