Title: Open Source Development at NASA
Date: 2011-09-08 19:52
Author: William Eshagh
Category: OpenGov
Tags: code, Gov 2.0, Inspiration, Nebula, Open Source, Participation
Slug: open-source-development-at-nasa

<div>

*This post complements a presentation given at the [2011 NASA IT
Summit][] entitled* [A Case for Bi-lateral Open Source Development: The
Nebula Story and Key Findings from the Open Source Summit][].  *Although
written by an attorney, this post is not legal advice or analysis and
should not be taken as such.*

</div>

<div style="margin-top: 1em;">

NASA has a special association with the principles of openness and
transparency characteristic of the open source software movement.
 Signed into law on July 29, 1958 by President Eisenhower, the [National
Aeronautics and Space Act][] created NASA and charged it with, among
other things, providing for the widest practicable and appropriate
dissemination of information concerning its activities and the results
thereof.  Manifestations of this duty can be observed across all of the
Agency’s mission and business functions, from [high resolution
photography][] and reports on [planetary discovery][] to [financial
transparency][] and [independent oversight][].

</div>

<div style="margin-top: 1em;">

A particularly direct form of this transparency can be seen in NASA’s
efforts to release open source software.  In 2003, NASA published [a
report][] assessing the formal barriers to distributing NASA software as
open source and reviewing the state of open source licenses.
 Subsequently, NASA developed an [open source license][] and changed
[relevant policies][] to permit the release of NASA software under this
license.  [Several projects][] have since taken advantage of this work
by releasing their code as open source.

</div>

<div style="margin-top: 1em;">

[NASA World Wind][], a 3D interactive world viewer and winner of the
[2009 NASA Software of the Year award][], stands out as a shining
example of the potential impact of open source NASA software.  Used by
citizens, scientists, and organizations such as the European Space
Agency, the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, PEMEX (Mexico Petroleum
Company), General Dynamics, World Bank, Sun Microsystems, IBM, Northrop
Grumman, and the Government of Australia, World Wind has made a
significant impact on increasing public access to geologic data.

</div>

<div style="margin-top: 1em;">

These efforts have validated the benefits inherent to releasing open
source software.  In furtherance of NASA’s open source efforts, we are
currently working toward expanding our flexibility to engage in
[bazaar-style][], bi-lateral open development where code is developed
over the Internet in full view of the public from the outset.  This
approach holds the promise of increased software quality, reduced
development costs, accelerated software development cycles, reduced
barriers for public-private collaboration, commercialization of Agency
technology, and a higher rate of technology transfer both to and from
NASA.

</div>

<div style="margin-top: 1em;">

NASA’s first foray into this area was through the [Nebula Cloud
Computing project][].  Nebula started as a software development effort
in 2008 to create a private cloud computing platform utilizing free and
open source software.  As a corollary of this architectural direction,
the team set about releasing its software under free and open source
licenses to engage a community in expeditiously advancing the state and
capabilities of open cloud computing.  Towards this end, the [Nebula
project worked with policy makers and stake holders across the Agency][]
to enable a construct wherein the team would be able to engage in
ongoing public development of the Nebula software under the Apache 2.0
license.  In this way, the project was able to work with other
interested developers at an early stage, building the software alongside
a diverse array of individuals and organizations.  After taking notice
of NASA’s work in this area, [Rackspace open sourced their Cloud Files
platform][].  This act provided the impetus for NASA and Rackspace to
join their respective efforts under a common banner: [OpenStack][].  The
ensuing public interest in OpenStack has been staggering, with nearly
[1500 individuals][] and [110 organizations][] currently participating
in some way to advance the project.

</div>

<div style="margin-top: 1em;">

Given Nebula and OpenStack’s success, it became apparent that
bazaar-style development held the potential for bringing significant
value to NASA projects.  However, the Nebula experience illustrated that
NASA’s open source policies favor the [cathedral model][bazaar-style] of
development where an isolated group of developers work on a project and
release infrequent iterations at the conclusion of development cycles.
To better understand NASA’s open source posture and to advance open
development as a formal option for NASA developers, we held an [Open
Source Summit][] in March at [NASA Ames Research Center][].  This event
brought together engineers, policy makers, and members of the open
source community to discuss our existing open source policy framework
and to chart a course toward bi-lateral open source development.  There
were a number of [key recommendations from the summit][], among them:

</div>

<div style="margin-left: 1em;">

<ul>
<li>
<span style="font-weight: bold;">Imbue an Open Source-First
Culture.</span>  Work to promote open source development and release in
NASA software projects through project, budgetary, and organizational
incentives.
</li>
<li>
<span style="font-weight: bold;">Knock Down Barriers to
Community.</span> Clarify and reduce barriers to direct NASA
participation in open source communities, governing boards, and related
structures.  Clarify contributor license agreement requirements to
facilitate code contributions to NASA projects.  Further, clearly
describe restrictions and regulations which are peculiar to the
government, such as the [International Traffic in Arms Regulations][].
</li>
<li>
<span style="font-weight: bold;">Communicate.</span> Highly visible
communication about NASA’s open source process and projects along with
community management and ongoing fora for discussion will increase
awareness and help more projects explore open source options.
 Activities like the summit, coding contests, hackathons, and similar
events will highlight open source opportunities for internal and
external parties.
</li>
<li>
<span style="font-weight: bold;">Deprecate NASA’s License.</span> The
[NASA Open Source Software Agreement][open source license] was developed
in 2003 as a means to enable public release of NASA source code.  This
license received Open Source Initiative [approval][], but [has been
criticized][] for potentially hindering code reuse. In 2006, the Open
Source Initiative issued a [report][] on the problem of license
proliferation identifying three consequences:
</li>
1.  the perception that there are too many licenses,
2.  difficulty arising from license incompatibility,
3.  and the expense of having to read and understand so many varied
    licenses.

<li style="list-style-type: none;">
Although the report excepts NASA’s license as necessary due to unique
government constraints, Summit participants suggested that NASA should
deprecate this license and re-license previously released software under
a mainstream open source license.  Further, they suggested that NASA
should approve a subset of mainstream licenses for NASA use and
centralize guidance for license selection for new projects.
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<div style="margin-bottom: 2em;">

In the coming months, the Open Government team along with others
throughout the Agency will work toward implementing these and other
suggestions to expand the open source options available to NASA
developers.  The benefits of bi-lateral open source development are
undeniable, and NASA is uniquely positioned to inspire the public to
directly participate in building the systems that will enable us to
expand human knowledge of the Earth and propel us deeper into the
recesses of space.

</div>

  [2011 NASA IT Summit]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/ocio/itsummit/
  [A Case for Bi-lateral Open Source Development: The Nebula Story and
  Key Findings from the Open Source Summit]: http://open.nasa.gov/william/open-source-presentation
  [National Aeronautics and Space Act]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/ogc/about/space_act1.html
  [high resolution photography]: http://www.nasa.gov/multimedia/imagegallery/iotd.html
  [planetary discovery]: http://kepler.nasa.gov/Mission/discoveries/
  [financial transparency]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/ocfo/budget/fin_rpts.html
  [independent oversight]: http://oig.nasa.gov/audits/reports/FY11/index.html
  [a report]: http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20030054432_2003061119.pdf
  [open source license]: http://ti.arc.nasa.gov/opensource/nosa/
  [relevant policies]: http://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/displayDir.cfm?t=NPR&c=2210&s=1C
  [Several projects]: http://ti.arc.nasa.gov/opensource/projects/
  [NASA World Wind]: http://worldwind.arc.nasa.gov/java/
  [2009 NASA Software of the Year award]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/icb/winners/soy/2009_soy.html
  [bazaar-style]: http://catb.org/~esr/writings/homesteading/cathedral-bazaar/
  [Nebula Cloud Computing project]: http://nebula.nasa.gov/
  [Nebula project worked with policy makers and stake holders across the
  Agency]: http://nodis3.gsfc.nasa.gov/NRW_Docs/NRW_2210-35_.pdf
  [Rackspace open sourced their Cloud Files platform]: http://www.openstack.org/blog/2010/07/introducing-openstack/
  [OpenStack]: http://www.openstack.org/
  [1500 individuals]: http://www.openstack.org/community/
  [110 organizations]: http://www.openstack.org/community/companies/
  [Open Source Summit]: http://www.nasa.gov/open/source/
  [NASA Ames Research Center]: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/ames/home/index.html
  [key recommendations from the summit]: http://www.slideshare.net/skytland/nasa-open-source-proceedings
  [International Traffic in Arms Regulations]: http://www.pmddtc.state.gov/regulations_laws/itar_official.html
  [approval]: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/NASA-1.3
  [has been criticized]: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html#NASA
  [report]: http://www.opensource.org/proliferation-report
