Title: Philadelphia goes to space
Date: 2013-01-22 13:26
Author: Ali Llewellyn
email: adllewellyn@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Tags: mainstage, Philadelphia, space apps
Slug: philadelphia-goes-to-space

*Did you know that the International Space Apps Challenge has a Global
Mainstage - kind of like a mission control for intergalactic space
collaborations? Last year we were based in San Francisco, and <span
style="color: #800000;">this year we are excited to announce that the
2013 Global Mainstage will be in **Philadelphia**!</span> *

*We invited Philadelphia local lead [Andrew Thompson][], Community
Evangelist from [Azavea][], to share about why he and his team got
involved in Space Apps and their plans to lead the global event.*

When I told a friend of mine that my organization was going to work with
NASA to host the Global MainStage event in Philadelphia of NASA’s
International Space Apps Challenge, he got really excited. “I would take
a 50% pay cut to work for NASA,” my friend said. I share his enthusiasm.
There is just something fundamentally amazing and compelling about space
science and exploration. The challenges, tools and data with which folks
at NASA grapple are the raw material of dreams and aspirations for
everyone from kids to backyard astronomers to developers and technology
nerds like us.

But the Space Apps Challenge is about more than just cool NASA tech. It
is also concerned with a fundamental transformation of how we interact
with technology at a cultural and social level. It aims to both
cultivate and contribute to the growth of [open government, open data][]
and [civic hacking][]. The community of developers and technologists
that are using their skills for social benefit - and have fun doing it -
is an awe-inspiring and awe-some community with which to engage. In
particular, Philadelphia has a [very][] [robust][] [community][] of
civic-minded software hackers, makers and [social entrepreneurs][]. As
folks like [Tim O’Reilly][] have pointed out, open government and civic
hacking represent an alternative approach to the tax, vote, and complain
pattern of engaging as a citizen in a democratic society. Global
collaboration efforts like Space Apps build communities, create
friendships, exercise social capital, and show us that with some
imagination and effort we can solve problems in our society (and beyond
our planet) together. As I read over what happened in the [2012
International Space Apps Challenge][], I see that NASA “gets it” with
respect to this community. That’s exciting to see from a US government
agency.

Other than the fact that the main stage event will be in our home town,
Philadelphia, why would a small company like ours get involved? There
are a number of reasons. As a software firm focused on geographic data
analysis, our core business relies on much of the earth science and
space-borne sensors that NASA launches and supports. Further, open
source software, data visualization, and citizen science are part of our
DNA. In addition to our work with civic applications related to water
and trees, our open source GeoTrellis framework was created to address
some of the big data and high performance computing challenges presented
by the array of sensors NASA operates to observe our planet. Finally, we
feel that Philadelphia is an ideal place for this year’s Space Apps
Challenge. The event will be part of [PhillyTechWeek 2013][] and the
[Philadelphia Science Festival][] in late April, and hosting Space Apps
is our way of contributing to our local science and technology
community. So save April 20th and 21st on your calendar, and come join
us in Philadelphia or any one of the over 25 other Space Apps cities
worldwide!

*If you are anywhere near Philly, we hope you'll join us there for Space
Apps and help us make this site out of this world!*

Banner image credit to [PMillerA4][] under Creative Commons.

  [Andrew Thompson]: http://www.azavea.com/about-us/staff-profiles/andrew-thompson/
  [Azavea]: http://www.azavea.com/
  [open government, open data]: http://www.opengovpartnership.org/
  [civic hacking]: http://civic.io/2012/12/31/the-year-that-civic-hacking-changed-everything/
  [very]: http://technicallyphilly.com/
  [robust]: http://www.azavea.com/a/hacks-for-democracy
  [community]: http://techcampglobal.org/philadelphia.php
  [social entrepreneurs]: http://christopherwink.com/2011/12/19/social-entrepreneurship-how-philadelphia-could-have-a-regional-distinction-for-startups/
  [Tim O’Reilly]: http://ofps.oreilly.com/titles/9780596804350/defining_government_2_0_lessons_learned_.html
  [2012 International Space Apps Challenge]: http://2012.spaceappschallenge.org/debrief/#/hello
  [PhillyTechWeek 2013]: http://technicallyphilly.com/2012/08/20/philly-tech-week-2013-third-annual-celebration-of-innovation-scheduled-april-19-27
  [Philadelphia Science Festival]: http://www.philasciencefestival.org/
  [PMillerA4]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/pmillera4/
