Title: Pioneering the Future Together: Space Apps Manila
Date: 2013-02-20 12:20
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: locations, Participation, space apps
Slug: pioneering-the-future-together-space-apps-manila

*58 days and counting until the 2013 International Space Apps Challenge!
Local leads at 70 sites all over the world are in the midst of
preparations to engage their local communities in building and creating
better tools to explore and communicate about space. We invited Manila
local lead Dean Marc to share about why he and his team got involved in
Space Apps and their plans to lead the event in the Philippines. (Banner
image is the [Philippine archipelago from ISS][], via ESA.)*

[![ManilaBanner][]][ManilaBanner]

On my walk back to the Hive, as we call our team at the Dungeon, I am
again struck by a fleeting gloom whenever I look up at the night sky and
see something completely ordinary: nothing; well, almost nothing.

Aside from the passing glitter of planes en route to their destinations,
a spatter of wispy clouds, and the lambent glow of the urban sky, I see
no stars. While I am aware of the Bortle Dark-Sky Scale, skyglow, and
the effects of weather conditions and air pollution in visibility, no
amount of excuse cheers me up at that point in time.

But, surprise! Upon reaching the Hive, on a piece of recycled A4 hanging
on one of our pin walls is writ "NASA MANILA, nasa Manila." The word
'nasa' also happens to mean 'in' or 'at' in our native language to
denote location. I still cannot believe our team has been afforded the
chance to host the International Space Apps Challenge in Manila. While
we are still advocating to ensure logistical and participation
feasibility by allying with partners and sponsors through varying levels
of sponsorship (i.e. Planetary, Lunar, Stellar, Galactic, and Cosmic),
we are very hopeful and confident.

While I am proud to say that our teams are perhaps some of the geekiest,
smartest, and purpose-driven bunch in this part of the globe, we humbly
operate mostly in the shadows and under stealth.

We do not see the Space Apps Challenge here as a chance to prove to the
world that our country or our industry has developed sophisticated
technology or solutions nor is it a statement of competence in relation
to the level of vibrancy and intensity in comparison to other economies,
locations, or technology startup arenas.

You would be surprised to know that when we spoke with some very
knowledgeable technology people here, it takes more than a few seconds
for them to recall what NASA is and the significance and benefit it has
offered to the world at large.

We are aware that taking this initiative to bring and promote the
International Space Apps Challenge here is fraught with difficulties on
cultural, social, technological, professional and community aspects.
**Fail or succeed, we take it on upon ourselves to be catalysts for the
future in our tiny, little way. We start here at our own backyard.**

Margaret Mead said, "Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful,
committed citizens can change the world; indeed, it's the only thing
that ever does."

This is the spirit of the event. This is the spirit of our long-term
commitment to this endeavour. **This is the spirit within everyone who
truly wants to make a difference. **

[![Manila astronaut][]][Manila astronaut]

Per aspera ad astra and see you soon!

  [Philippine archipelago from ISS]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/europeanspaceagency/6840328987/sizes/l/in/photostream/
  [ManilaBanner]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/DI_Tandem_NASA_SpaceAppsManila_v20130216.jpg
  [Manila astronaut]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/20130220_113016.jpg
