NASA Open Government Team Broadens Focus to Innovation
######################################################
:date: 2013-01-28 09:57
:author: nskytlan
:category: OpenGov
:slug: pivot

*This is a cross post of a `FedScoop article`_\ written by `Luke
Fretwell`_*

In true startup fashion, NASA’s open government team has mastered the
art of the government “pivot.”

Popularized by “The Lean Startup“ author Eric Ries, the concept of the
pivot centers around an organization’s ability to adapt its focus based
on the realization of new market potential or service need.

At the beginning of fiscal year 2013, NASA’s open government group did
just that, formally adopting new nomenclature to emphasize innovation,
and now serves under the banner of “open innovation.”

But to NASA Open Innovation Program Manager Nick Skytland and his team,
this isn’t about semantics. It’s about better serving the agency in an
era of crowd-generated ideas and contributions.

Openness, including open innovation platforms, open data and open
technologies, such as open source software and hardware, says Skytland,
is a fundamental catalyst to government leveraging the masses to further
its mission.

For NASA’s open innovation team, serving as an internal innovation
engine is a key function that could play a defining role in helping the
agency realize its impact to Americans beyond just space.

As the open government movement evolves in how it addresses core issues
around transparency, collaboration and participation, Skytland says it
makes sense that it would find itself included under a broader
innovation umbrella.

“It’s a natural progression of what open government looks like inside
government agencies.” said Skytland.

NASA is no stranger to open innovation. The agency was a leader in the
open source cloud computing movement with its contributions to OpenStack
via the now decommissioned Nebula project. It is a regular collaborator
on developer hackathons, including Random Hacks of Kindness, the
International Space Apps Challenge and the recently-announced National
Day of Civic Hacking, among others. The NASA Spinoff database is a
repository of the agency’s intellectual property, open for adoption by
entrepreneurs anywhere.

Integrating a formal approach to innovation has emerged in government as
a key component to fostering public sector ingenuity and creativity. The
Department of Labor and the National Archives have appointed
senior-level executives to serve as chief innovation officers. The White
House Presidential Innovation Fellowship program, established in 2012,
is another high-profile example of encouraging a culture beyond the
bureaucracy. A cursory search of federal government employees yields
nearly 200 with the word innovation in their official titles.

To Skytland and his team, open innovation is part open government, part
digital strategy and part mass collaboration. On the latter, the maximum
potential of any government will only be achieved when it effectively
opens itself to citizen participation.

“We’re now taking the approach from the inside where we ask ourselves
‘what are the challenges that NASA’s trying to solve that we haven’t
been able to address for one reason or another?’ How can we take those
challenges and offer them to people outside of our own organization, as
well as people inside our organization, by using open innovation
platforms with the goal of aggregating those solutions for the benefit
of NASA.”

The team is comprised of Skytland, Chris Gerty, Ali Llewellyn, Sean
Herron and Astronaut Ron Garan, and reports directly to NASA Chief
Technology Officer for IT Sasi Pillay.

“The ‘open’ in open innovation stands for the bi-directional aspect of
innovation and collaboration. That is, we take ideas from NASA and seed
it externally and we take ideas from external sources and seed them
inside. This thinking truly promotes a truly open collaborative
environment.”

As NASA faces a future of lean space budgets, the open innovation pivot
may help lead it to a new final frontier.

.. _FedScoop article: http://fedscoop.com/nasa-open-government-team-broadens-focus-to-innovation/
.. _Luke Fretwell: http://fedscoop.com/author/luke-fretwell/
