Random Hacks of Kindness
########################
:date: 2011-04-01 05:33
:author: cgerty
:category: OpenGov
:slug: random-hacks-of-kindness-2

Random Hacks of Kindness (RHoK) is all about using technology to make
the world a better place by building a community of innovation.
Co-sponsored by NASA, Microsoft, Yahoo!, Google, and the World Bank,
RHoK sponsors a series of “hackathons” that bring the best and brightest
hackers from around the world and disaster risk management experts
together to identify critical global challenges and develop software
solutions to respond to them. NASA supports RHoK to create a developer
community to enhance and enable development and reconstruction efforts
to share information, have access to timely data, and to collaborate
publicly to solve some of the toughest social and environmental
challenges today.

This type of collaboration underscores the strength of partnerships and
the opportunity to bring innovation into organizations. The World Bank
is embracing the concept of an active volunteer technical community and
crowd sourcing to assist in addressing development challenges. NASA has
a trove of Earth science data, modeling and simulation capabilities that
are used by scientists to understand the changing global environment
that can be used by the sustainable development community and to build a
developer community around NASA data and software. Google, Yahoo! and
Microsoft understand how to cultivate and inspire communities around
developing software. Building a community of citizens to utilize open
data in open standards and creating the environment for innovation to
occur is central to innovation and at the core of the Open Government
Initiative.

Two RHoK events were held in 2010, the first taking place in July and
the second in December. Each event featured a “mainstage” location and
dozens of global satellites, with hundreds of participants around the
globe collaborating on projects online. Additional events are planned
for the near future with the intent of being even larger and more
collaborative than before.
