Title: Real participatory exploration: NASA's bed rest analog study (Interview with @Pillownaut)
Date: 2011-09-22 12:03
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: analogs, bed rest, citizen science, life sciences, Participation
Slug: real-participatory-exploration-nasas-bed-rest-analog-study-interview-with-pillownaut

I had just started at NASA when I saw [Nick Skytland][] give this
presentation on Participatory Exploration, and it captured my
imagination.

<div id="__ss_755638" style="width: 425px;">

**[Participatory Exploration][]**
<iframe src="http://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/755638" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" width="425" height="355"></iframe>
</p>
<div style="padding: 5px 0 12px;">

View more [presentations][] from [Nick Skytland][1]

</div>

</div>

This time **you get to participate**. Not 'you get to read about it,' or
'you can carry the briefcase of the real heroes.' Not 'you get to sit on
the sidelines and clap for other people.' *Everyone* can do something
that matters, that contributes to the mission. Participation is one of
the core tenets of Open Government, and one we take very seriously. When
NASA creates opportunities for inspired citizens to participate by
contributing their time, talents and resources in meaningful ways, we
improve the flow of ideas and solutions into and out of the space
program.

Today I want to share about a great example of real participatory
exploration... in some of the coolest work that NASA does!

[Analog missions][] are a vital part of what we do for exploration. We
have [NASA's Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NEEMO)][] on the
Florida Coast, the Inflatable Lunar Habitat in Antarctica, the Short
Distance Mobility Exploration Engineering Evaluation Field Tests in
Washington and Arizona, the In-Situ Resource Utilization Demonstrations
in Hawaii, and the Haughton Mars Project in Canada. Each of these sites
enables us to "make an analogy" about spaceflight, creating a test
environment that helps us understand how people, equipment, and
experiments might (or might not) work in the extreme environment of a
mission. (Go [here][] to read blogs by the Analogs Field Testing team -
most recently the [Desert RATS][] project.)

But we have other analogs too - and one of the best examples is
the [NASA Bed Rest Study][], hosted in Galveston, TX. Head down bed rest
is a good way to mimic a person traveling in space without gravity. This
amazing project demonstrates how much your body, tilted down slightly
with head down and feet up, for 70 days, 24-hours a day, without getting
out of bed, except for limited times for specific tests, is like an
astronaut’s body during the weightlessness of space flight. (Cool, huh?)

**Heather Archuletta**, also known as Pillownaut, is just a "regular
joe" (in her own words) who realized that everyone could contribute to
NASA's exploration mission in a substantive way and decided to go for it
and join the bed rest study. She continues to tell the story of her
experience and increase the awesome all over the country, getting people
excited about space and exploration.

<div>

![bicycling to exhaustion!][]
:   Bicycling to exhaustion... one of the many tests involved in the
    study!

</div>

**What originally motivated you to volunteer for the bedrest study?**

*Heather:* A co-worker emailed me a link to an article about bedrest
analogs.  The headline was “Go To Bed For Science” or something similar
to that, so I initially thought it was a joke.  I sought more articles
about it, and learned all the physiological changes that occur, and I
was fascinated at how these studies have evolved since the 1960s. 
Really, you can simulate spaceflight in bed?  I loved that idea, of how
we play with gravity. I enjoyed the career I had at the time, but it was
just another IT job for average tech clients.  When I changed my focus
and went to Johnson Space Center, I was intrigued that just a normal joe
like myself could do something like this for my space agency, even for
all of humanity.  I am a lifelong NASA geek, and I love that their motto
is, “For The Benefit of All.”  It was something higher, something
meaningful, and I felt I had to go for it.

**How did your work there affect/support/engage the space program?**

*Heather:* This question makes me laugh inwardly, because I did so
little!  The doctors and scientists who work for the spaceflight
simulations programs are the ones who truly make a difference, and I saw
some of the most dedicated and earnest people I’ve ever met in my life.
It is inspiring to see folks who are absolutely passionate about what
they do for a living, and they never lose sight of their mission.

Other than going through their screening process, and [qualifying as a
healthy non-smoker with naturally strong bones][], my tasks were pretty
minimal.  However, no one before me had ever described the process in
detail as it was happening to them, so that was why I decided
to [blog][] along the way.  I was happy to share the medical reality of
space flight with many readers who were very supportive.  I just tried
to be cooperative and positive for the researchers, and now I try to
encourage others to get involved in the program if they are healthy
enough to qualify.  When the first human sets foot on Mars, we will be
able to say, “I did my small part in making that happen.”  I desperately
hope a red planet landing occurs in my lifetime!

**How many days exactly did you spend in bed for space?**

*Heather:* I’ve done three studies for the **Human Test Subject
Facility** (**HTSF**), two of which required tilted bed rest.  In the
first, I was at a -6 degree head-down tilt for 50 days, simulating the
micro-gravity of the space station.  In the second, I was at an 8-degree
tilted-up angle for 14 days to simulate lunar gravity. Hopefully this
data will be used in the Moon and Mars programs, when we further explore
these bodies.

**What was the best part? A favorite story?**

*Heather:* The best part is definitely the TIME you have, and the break
you get from outside life.  You aren’t in your normal routine generating
bills or paying for gasoline!  Someone brings you three meals a day,
does your laundry for you, and you get a massage every other day – it’s
quite surreal.  The[testing schedule][] comes first, of course, but on
days when there are no tests, you have an incredible amount of time on
your hands, which is a rare and precious commodity in adulthood!

I got SO much work done, it was incredible; I actually found the bottom
of my email inbox for about the first time in ten years.  In terms of
leisure, I blazed through thirty books that I previously hadn’t had time
to read.  NASA tends to recruit people who are industrious and able to
keep busy without getting bored.  Some of us were learning languages,
others took classes, and still others brought their art supplies or
instruments.  Many of the participants at the time would all get
together in the common rooms for movie nights, or shared crafts
projects.  I was lucky to be with a fantastic group who were very
friendly and caring; we all still keep in touch through Myspace and
Facebook.

**What there a time you wanted to quit and go home? What kept you
going?**

*Heather:* Yes, of course. That is human nature when we undertake odd
challenges or out-of-the-ordinary activities.  The very first time I did
a [Tilt Test][], I remember thinking, “Oh for heaven’s sake, what have I
gotten myself into?”  It is stunning to lie in a centrifuge or be
strapped into posturography machines, and think “I get to play fake
astronaut!”  There were days when I had some discomfort, but I never
wanted to go home.  I would have stayed at the NASA facility longer if I
could have.

I did have some side effects, such as watery eyes and occasional back
aches, and when I got up after my longest stint in bed, my feet were
quite tender.  What kept me going was thinking, wow, astronauts go
through these same steps.  They are the kind of people who don’t give
up, and I won’t either.  I wanted to see if I could make it through
whatever they threw at me, but of course I don’t kid myself that I ever
worked as hard as real astronauts do.  They train for years just to
spend a few days in space.  I learned a lot about what they endure, and
did a great deal of my own research into the space science to which I
was contributing. So it’s a participatory learning experience.

**How else (other than being a test subject) have you gotten involved
with NASA's mission for exploration? **

*Heather:* [Tweetups][]! Honestly, I think they are the single greatest
outreach idea to come along in years.  I’ve been to five NASA Tweetups
now, I’ve been a NASA mascot handler, and helped with media events at
NASA centers.  Anyone who finds me online can see I am constantly
passing on space news about NASA missions.  It was sad to see the
shuttle program end, and it’s difficult to see manned spaceflight face
such an uncertain future due to budget problems or naysayers.  I’ll keep
trying to generate interest in all things space, especially in
children.  My favorite part of continuing my blog all these years has
been when little kids send me questions.  I always think, people their
age are the ones who may walk on Mars, and it’s crucial that we heighten
their awareness of the importance of space travel.

<div>

![rehab][]
:   Heather learning to walk again after a long time in bed

</div>

Thanks for sharing your adventures, Heather -- and for helping everyone
get inspired about what we do at NASA.

Not everyone can spend this many days in bed for science, but there is
something that everyone can do. If you are a dreamer, an excite-r, an
explorer, a hard worker, a thinker, we need you to come be a part of
what NASA is doing.

Interested in knowing more about spaceflight analog studies with the
Human Test Subject Facility? Go [here][2] for current opportunities.

Have other ideas about how people can participate and contribute to the
mission? Click the 'Share your Ideas' tab at the bottom of the page and
let us know about them.

  [Nick Skytland]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/author/nskytlan/
  [Participatory Exploration]: http://www.slideshare.net/skytland/participatory-exploration-presentation
    "Participatory Exploration"
  [presentations]: http://www.slideshare.net/
  [1]: http://www.slideshare.net/skytland
  [Analog missions]: http://www.nasa.gov/exploration/analogs/
  [NASA's Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NEEMO)]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/05/11/neemo-an-analog-for-asteroids/
  [here]: http://blogs.nasa.gov/cm/newui/blog/viewpostlist.jsp?blogname=analogsfieldtesting
  [Desert RATS]: http://www.nasa.gov/exploration/analogs/desertrats/
  [NASA Bed Rest Study]: https://bedreststudy.jsc.nasa.gov/cft.aspx
  [bicycling to exhaustion!]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/bicycle-300x225.jpg
    "bicycling to exhaustion!"
  [qualifying as a healthy non-smoker with naturally strong bones]: https://bedreststudy.jsc.nasa.gov/apply.aspx
  [blog]: http://pillownaut.blogspot.com
  [testing schedule]: http://pillownaut.com/tests/tests.html
  [Tilt Test]: http://pillownaut.com/tests/tilt.html
  [Tweetups]: http://www.nasa.gov/connect/tweetup/index.html
  [rehab]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/rehab-225x300.jpg
    "rehab"
  [2]: https://bedreststudy.jsc.nasa.gov/
