Title: Shujaat Ahmed: NASA Student Ambassador
Date: 2012-03-14 11:44
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Education, internship, Student Ambassadors
Slug: shujaat-ahmed-nasa-student-ambassador

*NASA recently accepted its fourth cohort of [Student Ambassadors][].
These exceptional individuals engage their fellow undergraduate and
graduate students in NASA science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (STEM), as well as participate in research and immersion
opportunities. They collaborate with and inspire their peers, make
professional connections and represent NASA to the public. We have
invited some of them to share their stories here. This week, Shujaat
Ahmed, from the industrial/organizational psychology program at Illinois
Institute of Technology, describes her NASA experience. *

When people think of NASA, they usually think of engineers or
scientists. Truth be told, there are other areas within NASA such as
[human capital][] that also support the mission. Having said that, I
think it is important to point out some of the work these lesser-known
areas do and the contributions that are made to the exploration mission.
I would like to start by highlighting some of my experiences and why it
is helpful to NASA.

To start off, I initially became involved in NASA after a friend who was
majoring in computer science told me he was interning at the Jet
Propulsion Laboratory during the summer of 2008. Since then, I realized
NASA did have an [internship program for students][]. However, only
after I researched the web and found the website listed with various
opportunities (a couple of which were in my field), was I aware that I
could have a remote chance of being a NASA intern. Being a psychology
student, I felt unique during my two internship experiences in that I
was surrounded by mostly engineers but I was alright with it. While I
may not have understood difficult engineering concepts outside of my
major, I brought a different perspective to the table given my diverse
educational background and experiences.

During my first internship in the summer of 2010, I conducted a study
examining the personality traits of NASA Marshall Space Flight Center
engineers and the impact that had on the structure and culture of the
organization. This study is important because it suggests that in order
for this organization to thrive and be effective in a business
environment that is characterized by change and competition, the
engineers need to be able to adapt.

My most recent internship during the summer of 2011 involved using
workforce analytics to guide succession planning within Goddard Space
Flight Center. Here I analyzed 10 years worth of data for the
engineering directorate to find gaps in the analyses and determine where
the directorate needed to fill the gaps. This work is important because
it has brought that directorate and GSFC one step closer to having a
formal succession plan in place. I am positive my work will help prepare
the engineering directorate and GSFC in identifying, assessing, and
developing employees to make certain they are ready to take on key roles
when the person higher up in their pipeline leaves, while ensuring
knowledge is successfully passed on to and retained by the employee
assuming the new key role.

In both of my internship experiences, I am honored to have played a role
(indirectly) in trying to keep NASA alive as an organization and to keep
moving forward. This is because of the influence and impact of the
internship projects I mentioned earlier have had in helping NASA
employees adapt during the economic turmoil and in retaining knowledge
for developing employees as they fill in new roles when a person leaves.
While I am excited to have been given opportunities to make an
impression, *my journey with NASA is not over yet*. In the future, I
hope to work at NASA fulltime, improving different areas within human
capital management, whether it is implementing more effective training
strategies, helping with employee productivity and engagement, or
something else. I want to continue supporting NASA because ever since I
became a part of this organization, the people around me have been very
kind, caring, and the climate and culture at NASA is priceless.

In closing, I hope my experiences have shed light on some of the work
that other areas, such as NASA’s office of human capital management are
involved in. More importantly, I hope I have provided some motivation to
people to stay focused and be engaged in NASA’s mission because NASA’s
best resource are its people and it is up to all of us to make a
difference.

 

*You can learn more about available NASA internships [here][internship
program for students]. *

 

  [Student Ambassadors]: http://intern.nasa.gov/intern/
  [human capital]: http://nasapeople.nasa.gov/
  [internship program for students]: https://intern.nasa.gov/solar/web/public/main/index.cfm?solarAction=view&subAction=content&contentCode=HOME_PAGE_INTERNSHIPS
