Title: Social Entrepreneurship and NASA
Date: 2012-03-29 12:37
Author: ssnabes
Category: OpenGov
Tags: exploration, fragile oasis, LAUNCH, RHoK, SERVIR, Social Innovation
Slug: social-entrepreneurship-and-nasa

*The Open Government Initiative has invited intern Samantha Snabes to
share here about her insights into the intersection between social
entrepreneurship and human space exploration in a continual series. You
can reach Samantha [here][] or follow her on Twitter [here][1]. *

 

Innovation…Impact...Entrepreneurship…these are a few of the words that
often accompany the word social within the growing movement focused on
charging humanity with making a difference and enabling change. And
while exclusive language and players have emerged to rally much needed 
groups and resources, myself and others would argue that the effort is
not new, rather inherently part of the DNA of many organizations and
agencies…including NASA.

***So what is it?***

When pressed to provide a definition, I have championed the below:

Social entrepreneurship involves**creating sustainable**, **large
scale** change to benefit humans living in space and on Earth by
applying innovative solutions using entrepreneurship principles to
address the most pressing social and environmental problems.

**Ok, so what does this mean?**

As evidenced above, defining a meta-topic such as social
entrepreneurship is an arduous task.  Tactically, this could involve
designing a simple water quality monitoring system to be used by
astronauts on the International Space Station while providing satellite
data to NGO’s in Honduras attempting to identify the best location to
implement a gravity-fed resource to support locals lacking clean water.
After having the pleasure of participating in several conversations with
others active in the social good movement, I have come to appreciate
social entrepreneurship as a mindset. Social Entrepreneurship thus
provides a call to action for individuals and institutions to come
together to effect change and solve challenges relating to basic human
needs.  This includes providing microloans to overcome poverty, opening
datasets, designing mobile applications, or inventing instruments to
travel in a backpack under extreme conditions, on Earth or in Space. 
The possibilities are endless, limited only by our own creativity and
demand cross disciplinary solutions that bridge geographic and
atmospheric boundaries.

***Why NASA?***

While complexity is often associated with human space exploration, life
in space has many striking similarities to the simple challenges and
isolated environments experienced by many living in developing countries
or in remote areas. For example, to support human survival, space
travels requires mitigating issues related to accessing clean water,
emergency response, disease control, food scarcity and waste disposal.
This must be accomplished in a hostile, time-constrained environment
demanding lightweight, portable solutions requiring little power and
technical training.

Overcoming these physical challenges is not limited to hardware
developments and often simply requires access to information. 
Technology advances over the last 50 years have now opened up new
possibilities to extrapolate solutions from data provided by orbiting
satellites to support emergency response, crisis mapping, environmental
monitoring, and disaster prediction on Earth.  Conversely, organizations
in remote areas such as Antarctica have the potential to offer space
partners information on human behavior within extreme conditions and
lessons learned in medical telemetry.

***How do I get involved?***

Several initiatives currently facilitate social entrepreneurial efforts
within NASA, including:

 

**[Fragile Oasis][]**

-   A virtual forum supported by NASA to use the unique orbital
    perspective to inspire people to improve life on earth, to get the
    word out that the International Space Station is an incredible
    global asset, to highlight the scientific advancements being
    accomplished on the International Space Station, and to inspire
    students to academic excellence.

[**International Space Apps Challenge** ][]

-   Demonstrating its commitment to the Open Government Partnership,
    NASA is working with space agencies around the world to coordinate
    an International Space Apps Challenge to be held in 2012 that will
    encourage scientists and concerned citizens from all seven
    continents – and in space – to create, build, and invent new
    solutions in order to address challenges of global importance.

**[Random Hacks of Kindness][]**

-   RHoK was founded in 2009 in partnership between Google, Microsoft,
    Yahoo!, NASA and the World Bank as a community of innovation focused
    on developing practical open source solutions to disaster risk
    management and climate change adaptation challenges. The scope of
    RHoK has now been widened to include any application that can have a
    major effect in the developing world. RHoK is now holding
    “community” events, such as the Waterhackathon, focusing on water
    sector applications.

**[LAUNCH][] **

-   NASA, USAID, Department of State, and NIKE joined together to form
    LAUNCH in an effort to identify, showcase and support innovative
    approaches to global challenges through a series of forums. LAUNCH
    searches for visionaries, whose world-class ideas, technologies or
    programs show great promise for making tangible impacts on society.

**[NASA/USAID- SERVIR][] **

-   NASA and USAID signed a five-year memorandum of understanding on
    April 25 2011. This agreement formalizes ongoing agency
    collaborations that use Earth science data to address developmental
    challenges, and to assist in disaster mitigation and humanitarian
    responses. The program integrates satellite observations,
    ground-based data and forecast models to monitor and forecast
    environmental changes and improve response to natural disasters in
    Central America, the Caribbean, Africa, and the Himalayas. SERVIR
    helps inform science-based decision-making in the areas of climate
    change, health, agriculture environment, water and weather.

As these initiatives reveal, the correlation between survival in Space
and Earth is significant and opens endless collaborative opportunities
between those exploring the universe and living on Earth.   We invite
you to share your ideas or efforts as we work together to highlight
those commonalities that benefit humanity. What other projects or
applications would you suggest?

*  
*

  [here]: http://about.me/samanthasnabes
  [1]: https://twitter.com/#!/samanthasnabes
  [Fragile Oasis]: fragileoasis.org
  [**International Space Apps Challenge** ]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [Random Hacks of Kindness]: www.rhok.org
  [LAUNCH]: launch.org
  [NASA/USAID- SERVIR]: www.servirglobal.net
