Title: Social Media, Citizen Science, and the Future of Space Exploration
Date: 2011-12-09 15:27
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Slug: social-media-citizen-science-and-the-future-of-space-exploration

Calling on students and young professionals with experience in social
media and with concrete ideas of how social media tools can improve
space operations, space exploration, space science, and Earth
observations from space -- your ideas could shape the future of the
global space program! As such, it is time to socialize your experience
and ideas with space leaders in government, industry and academia at the
International Astronautical Congress in Naples, Italy, 1-5 October 2012!

This is an exciting opportunity for students and young professionals to
participate in a plenary at the International Astronautical Congress in
Naples, Italy next October! The Next Generations Plenary Event will
focus on the Uses of Social Media for the Advancement of Earth and Space
Science, Technology and Operations. This is the third year in which the
IAC will have a plenary with students and young professionals as
panelists.

We are proposing to organize a plenary event to hear concrete ideas from
21-35 year olds on how social media and citizen science can be used
presently and in the future to enhance space missions and technology. If
approved, this event would take place the week of 1-5 October 2012 in
Naples, Italy, at the International Astronautical Congress (IAC).
Plenary event participants will engage in a panel discussion and
interact with the audience while sharing their ideas on the myriad of
benefits that social networking tools offer space endeavors. The plenary
will be moderated in a talk show fashion interweaving clips from the
panelists’ audition videos with questions and comments from the
moderator, other panelists, and the audience. The video clips will be
used to enhance the audience’s understanding of the ideas of the plenary
participants. This is an exciting opportunity that you do not want to
miss!

If you are interested, the deadline is approaching fast, so here is what
you have to do:

**ROUND ONE: 15 Seconds of Fame!**

By 21 December 2011, create a 15 second video telling us why you should
be chosen to address the IAC and post it on [ http://www.youtube.com][].
 We will only watch/listen for 15 seconds, so be sure to watch the time
of your video! Then complete the application at 
<http://surveyor3.org/survey.php?id=X3MEUE94>

**ROUND TWO: Three Minutes!**

The IAF will select the Round Two subset of candidates from the above
and notify all entrants by 9 January 2012. Specific details of Round Two
requirements will be sent to the candidates in the notification.
Selected candidates will be asked to create and post a three minute
video on YouTube by 31 January 2012.

**FINAL SELECTION: **

The IAF will select the finalists from these entries based on their
creativity, efficacy of messages and relevance to the plenary topics. We
will be looking for concrete ideas on how social media and citizen
science can advance space operations, space exploration, space science,
and Earth observations from space. All entrants will be notified of
IAF’s decision on their applications by 15 February 2012.  
The IAF will make the final selection of Plenaries for the IAC in
Naples the week of 12 March 2012 and will notify the finalists of its
decision by 31 March 2012.

**Who Will Sponsor Me to Travel to Naples?**

Plenary participants will be responsible for finding a sponsor or
sponsors for their travel to and accommodations at the IAC. In addition
to the obvious sources of sponsorship – your employer or school, and
industry contacts - we want to share some great programs with you that
occur in conjunction with the 2012 Naples IAC for students and young
professionals. The following are all distinct programs related to the
IAC but are not directly related to this plenary opportunity.

-   IAF Emerging Space Leaders Grant Programme
-   Candidates are encouraged to contact the Space Generation Advisory
    Committee concerning their plans for their event prior to the IAC in
    Naples and associated sponsorship opportunities.
-   Students in Canada, Europe, Japan and the United States are
    encouraged to contact CSA, ESA, JAXA and NASA respectively to apply
    to the space agencies’ student programs at the IAC in Naples.

Posted on behalf of the International Astronautical Federation (IAF)
Young Professional Committee. For more information, please see the [IAF
website][] or contact Kat Coderre (kathleen.m.coderre@lmco.com) or
Philip Harris (philip.d.harris@nasa.gov).

 

  [ http://www.youtube.com]:  http://www.youtube.com
  [IAF website]: http://www.iafastro.org/index.html?title=IAC2012_Next_Generation_Plenary
