Title: #SpaceApps: Space Makes Anything Possible
Date: 2012-03-18 22:59
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: hackathon, Inspiration, Open Data, physical apps, software development, space apps
Slug: spaceapps-space-makes-anything-possible

*What exactly is a space app? What could you do with all that data,
anyway? And how can we use space to improve life on Earth? *

On the first night of the first codeathon-type event I ever attended, I
saw this quote from Herb Kelleher posted on the wall: “We have a
strategic plan, it’s called DOING THINGS.” And that’s the key to what’s
going to happen at the Apps Challenge: we’re in this to **do things**.
We’re in this to **make things**. We’re in this because we believe that
the questions that motivate us to explore space can change the way we
live here on Earth and the way the next generation will continue to
explore, and we’re ready to see where that takes us.

To stir up your imagination, the [Apps Challenge][] team has assembled
this list of some of the coolest apps we have seen recently using space
data, space experience, or just plain space **awesomeness**. They
include software and hardware, science and art, education outreach and
creative ideation. Some of these apps originated as official NASA
projects; some are the work of engaged, inspired citizens. Nearly all
demonstrate the vital importance of [open data][] and the scientific and
technological possibilities it creates.

You can read more [here][] about the four types of challenges we will
address at the event. We're adding new challenges to the site every few
days... go [here][1] to read and comment on the current challenges, and
go [here][2] to submit a new challenge idea for the International Space
Apps Challenge.

 

**[ISS Notify Lamp][]**(created by [Nathan Bergey][])

*open hardware/ open data app*

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/24859969?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" frameborder="0" width="640" height="360"></iframe>

[ISS Lamp][] from [Nathan Bergey][3] on [Vimeo][].

**[Space Ipsum Generator][] (**created by Sean Herron, Nick Skytland,
and William Eshagh)

*software/ open data app*

Lorem Ipsum is the standard filler text used in design throughout the
world. It’s been the standards since the 1500’s and it’s time for an
update. The NASA OpenGov team took the opportunity at Science Hack Day
to create a new online tool to generate filler text based on a database
of historical space quotes. The project serves as an example of what can
be done to utilize historic NASA data and mash it up in a new and
exciting way. Although a “lorem ipsum” generator may seem
inconsequential at first glance, the weekend project will serve as the
backbone to a future data mashup project for the NASA OpenGov team.

The Space Ipsum site also perhaps NASA’s first experiment in responsive
design – the idea the content should not dictate the look and feel of
the site.  No matter what type of platform you view the website on,
you’ll always be able to access it’s core features due to the use of
CSS3 media queries. This is an evolution in web design and represents
the future of how web design should act.  The site also features some of
NASA’s historic space images that load as the background randomly when a
user visits the site.  We’ve put the code on [github][] and encourage
others to use it for their purposes.

**[Near Earth Asteroid Lamp][]** (created by [Nathan Bergey][])

*open hardware/ open data app*

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/17173555?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" frameborder="0" width="549" height="360"></iframe>

[Near Earth Asteroid Lamp][4] from [Nathan Bergey][3] on [Vimeo][].

**[Zero-G Coffee Cup][] (created by **NASA Astronaut [Don Pettit)][]

*open hardware/physical app*

NASA astronaut Don Pettit will do anything for his morning coffee—even
physics. Using a sheet of plastic from an overhead projector and a solid
understanding of fluid dynamics, Pettit created a special cup that you
can sip from in zero gravity without using a straw.

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/pk7LcugO3zg" frameborder="0" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

**[Galaxy Zoo][] (**by [Zooniverse][])

*citizen science/open data app*

Galaxy Zoo: Hubble uses gorgeous imagery of hundreds of thousands of
galaxies drawn from NASA's Hubble Space Telescope archive. To understand
how these galaxies, and our own, formed we need your help to classify
them according to their shapes — a task at which your brain is better
than even the most advanced computer. If you're quick, you may even be
the first person in history to see each of the galaxies you're asked to
classify.

More than 250,000 people have taken part in Galaxy Zoo so far, producing
a wealth of valuable data and sending telescopes on Earth and in space
chasing after their discoveries. The images used in Galaxy Zoo: Hubble
are more detailed and beautiful than ever, and will allow us to look
deeper into the Universe than ever before. To begin exploring, click the
'How To Take Part' link above, or read [The Story So Far][] to find out
what Galaxy Zoo has achieved to date.

**[YouTube Spacelab][]**(created by YouTube in partnership with NASA and
many other organizations)

*ideation/ citizen science/ creative visualization app*

YouTube Space Lab is an amazing competition and a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity which you could be a part of. All you have to do is come up
with an idea. It should be fun and you might learn some interesting
stuff about space in the process. If that's not enough, we're giving you
the chance to win some great prizes. From all the submissions we get,
one winning team (or individual if you enter alone) will be chosen in
each region of the world (The Americas; Europe, Middle-East and Africa;
Asia-Pacific) from each of the two age categories (14 - 16, 17 - 18),
making six regional winners overall. The regional winners will win a
free trip to Washington, D.C. USA for a special event in March 2012,
where they'll also get to take an exhilarating zero-G flight, which lets
you experience weightlessness, and they'll each receive Lenovo IdeaPads.
At the special event, two of the regional winners will be selected as
global winners. The global winners' experiments will be performed by
astronauts aboard the International Space Station and they'll win a
amazing once-in-a-lifetime space experience of their choice.

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/OjRSGs6agWQ" frameborder="0" width="640" height="360"></iframe>

** [SpaceLab for IOS][]**(created by [Odyssey Space Research][])

*open software/ citizen science app*

The purpose of *SpaceLab for iOS* is to demonstrate that an inexpensive
consumer electronics device can perform tasks previously reserved for
expensive single purpose devices.  Modern smart phones contain hardware
once only found in expensive avionics.  Where an avionics box may have
had a limited production run of 100′s or 1000′s of devices, a smart
phone may have a similar engineer investment but a longer production run
of millions, which significantly lowers the cost for users of the
device.  The goal of this project is to significantly lower the cost of
space flight and lower the barrier to access in space.

**[Real-time Climate Data Comparison Platform][]**(written by World Bank
and worked on at [RHoK][])

*software/ open data/ social good app*

In the absence of weather station data, Meteorological Satellite
Information (MSI) is crucial to estimating local climate.  MSI is
used worldwide to understand climate change effects, formulating
strategies for disaster risk management, and analyzing the gap between
water supply and demand. This knowledge, especially precipitation
behavior – main supplier of water - allows countries to promote
effective planning for fighting poverty. However, while MSI can estimate
climate where there aren't any weather station, the accuracy of MSI
depends heavily on field data (weather stations on the ground) to
calibrate outputs. Therefore, there is a contradiction here: if MSI
requires field data for accuracy, how can MSI be useful in places where
no weather station data is available? The first challenge is to bring
together satellite and ground information for users in real time and
create a tool which will produce a geospatial representation of both
sources of information. The first challenge was already accomplished
during the RhoK in Philadelphia. The second challenge is to generate an
"averaged" geospatial map from the combination of MSI and the ground
data.

**[Phone Sat][]** (created in partnership between NASA Ames Research
Center and Google)

*open hardware/physical app*

Not content just to have iPhones on the Station, Android phones had to
join the fun too. The NexusOne PhoneSat project aims to determine if
low-cost mobile phone components can withstand space travel. The phones
must withstand extreme vibrations on the way to reaching orbit, function
properly in a vacuum and operate at both extremely high and low
temperatures. Go [here][5] to read more about the collaboration.

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/Ews23BQ1tAU" frameborder="0" width="640" height="360"></iframe>

**NASA Project KEWL (Kinect Engineering With Learning)**(created at
the [NASA Johnson Space Center][])

*software/ creative visualization/ education app*

Project KEWL is a joint project between NASA/JPL and NASA/JSC to
stimulate interest of children in Science, Technology, Engineering and
Math (STEM) and bring the NASA space exploration experience to the
classroom, museum and ultimately the living room. Using the Kinect game
controller KEWL allows children to engage in NASA's missions in a
fundamentally new way. KEWL allows children to experiment with gravity
on Mars and the Moon; navigate through the International Space Station;
fix a torn solar array on the ISS; drive a robot on Mars; visit an
Asteroid; learn about the differences in gravity on different planets
and control Robonaut 2 using their body as the input device.

Project KEWL complements NASA's outreach investments in television,
mobile platforms and the web by engaging the public through the rapidly
expanding medium of console gaming. In 2008, [97% of teenagers played
video games and 86% played on a home gaming console][]. As of March
2011, there have been [more than 10 million Kinects sold][]. Project
KEWL interacts with children on a platform on which they spend much of
their time and teaches them information about NASA while they are having
fun.

Project KEWL progressed from completely custom C++ code written in house
to using a commercial game engine. The art work and 3D geometry models
come from existing engineering work or are created by the KEWL
development team. Six different KEWL applications have been demonstrated
at nine different venues including schools, museums, conferences, and
NASA outreach events . These demonstrations have allowed the developers
the chance to interact with players and observe the gameplay mechanics
in action . The lessons learned were then incorporated into the
subsequent versions of the applications.

 

Do you know of other great space apps? Please leave us a comment and
tell us about them so we can use them to inspire great, diverse
development at International Space Apps Challenge!

  [Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [open data]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/08/30/introducing-data-nasa-gov/
  [here]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/blog/2012/03/01/software-hardware-data-visualization-and-citizen-s/
  [1]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenges/
  [2]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/submit/
  [ISS Notify Lamp]: http://mechanicalintegrator.com/2011/iss-notify/
  [Nathan Bergey]: https://twitter.com/#!/natronics
  [ISS Lamp]: http://vimeo.com/24859969
  [3]: http://vimeo.com/user574085
  [Vimeo]: http://vimeo.com
  [Space Ipsum Generator]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/11/13/space-ipsum/
  [github]: https://github.com/seanherron/Space-Ipsum
  [Near Earth Asteroid Lamp]: http://mechanicalintegrator.com/2010/near-earth-asteroid-lamp-at-science-hack-day-sf/
  [4]: http://vimeo.com/17173555
  [Zero-G Coffee Cup]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/expeditions/expedition30/science_from_space.html
  [Don Pettit)]: http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/Bios/htmlbios/pettit.html
  [Galaxy Zoo]: http://www.galaxyzoo.org/
  [Zooniverse]: http://zooniverse.org/
  [The Story So Far]: http://www.galaxyzoo.org/story
  [YouTube Spacelab]: youtube.com/user/spacelab
  [SpaceLab for IOS]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/12/01/spacelab-for-ios/
  [Odyssey Space Research]: http://www.odysseysr.com/
  [Real-time Climate Data Comparison Platform]: http://www.rhok.org/problems/real-time-climate-data-comparison-platform-second-challenge
  [RHoK]: http://www.rhok.org/
  [Phone Sat]: http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/16476483
  [5]: http://gov20.govfresh.com/nasa-to-launch-inexpensive-android-phonesats-into-space/
  [NASA Johnson Space Center]: http://www.nasa.gov/centers/johnson/home/index.html
  [97% of teenagers played video games and 86% played on a home gaming
  console]: http://pewresearch.org/pubs/953
  [more than 10 million Kinects sold]: http://www.itproportal.com/2011/03/10/ki%20nect-record-brea%20king-sales-figu%20res-top-10-million/
