Space Apps: Lessons in Global Innovation
########################################
:date: 2012-06-01 10:42
:author: hjstephe
:category: OpenGov
:tags: collaboration, Innovation, international, Open Data, Open Government Partnership, Participation, space apps
:slug: space-apps-lessons-in-global-innovation

*Haley Stephenson’s excellent article first appeared in Volume 5, Issue
5 of NASA’s ASK the Academy, found \ `here`_. You can contact Haley
directly \ `here <mailto:haley.stephenson@valador.com>`__. *

Lessons from a global innovation event may inspire new ways to solve
project-based challenges concurrently.

When Paul MacCready decided to contend for the 1959 Kremer Prize, which
would reward the first person to fly a human-powered plane across the
English Channel, he had an insight about how to approach the engineering
challenge: fail fast. Instead of taking months or years to build and
test a specific design, MacCready took hours or maybe days by using
materials that would allow him to rebuild a failed plane quickly.
MacCready and his Gossamer Condor aircraft won the prize because he was
able to innovate within a fraction of the time of his
competitors—iterating design modifications, gaining new knowledge, and
learning from failure faster than the rest.

Decades later, on the morning of April 21, 2012, over 2,000 registered
participants from 7 continents, 17 countries, 24 cities, and 111
organizations drew upon the same innovative spirit that inspired
MacCready. Together, participants tackled 40-plus challenges posed by
NASA over the course of one weekend during the first `International
Space Apps Challenge`_. (Forty-eight hours is not a lot of time, but
remember that in 1970, Apollo 13 mission engineers devised a solution
for the carbon dioxide filtration problem in just two days.) Challenge
statements spanned four main categories—citizen science, software,
hardware, and data visualization—and involved mobile app development,
infographics, robot design and modification, and educational tools to
engage the public in the story of exploration.

At first glance, the benefits from the Space Apps Challenge might only
seem to pertain to education, citizen science, and public outreach. Like
the Gossamer Condor, though, the Space Apps Challenge can provide
insights about the learning process involved in tackling challenges.
"NASA is generating incredible amounts of data,” said Elizabeth Walker
Sabet, a mass-collaboration project lead from SecondMuse, which
coordinated global operations for the event. “If you put that data out
to a diverse community, it enables [NASA] to have numerous and
distributed backup teams around the world digging into the data,
figuring out what sort of valuable information can come from it and what
can be done with it."

It is difficult to predict in advance the gains from an event like this.
“The innovation that can come out of it has the potential to be
astounding,” said Brian McLaughlin, a lead for simulator development on
the Joint Polar Satellite System, in a Gov2.0 Radio Podcast. “We might
get stuff out of the challenge that is completely unexpected.”

Beyond the "fail fast" approach, the Space Apps Challenge also
demonstrated two other elements valuable to projects. The first is data
transparency. Solving a puzzle requires having the pieces first. For
each of NASA’s challenge statements, data and content needed to be
openly available and accessible. While NASA projects could not release
sensitive data to Space Apps innovators, many provided critical
information that helped to address specific challenges. "One challenge
resulted in the creation of a converter to take satellite image data in
a certain format to .png, a more usable format,” said Christopher Gerty,
a member of the NASA Open Government Team. “What that did was lower the
barrier of entry."

The second element is partnership. Space Apps enabled new kinds of
relationships with NASA. “It was more than just gaining access to data
and creating something new,” said Sean Herron, also a member of the NASA
Open Government Team. “The participants in Nairobi felt like partners
with the United States, with the rest of the world. With events going on
all over the globe simultaneously, they felt they were a part of a
collective movement to further NASA’s mission, further space
exploration.”

"The closest I've come to space is through the Internet," said Allan
Onchuru, software developer at iHub, a collective that brings together
innovators and entrepreneurs in Nairobi. “I usually work on web and
mobile applications, but today I wanted to try out some robotics.”

Leveraging global brainpower over the course of two days resulted in
several challenge winners. But for most participants, the event was a
beginning, not an end. The International Space Apps Challenge served as
a springboard to solve problems, and collaborative technology continues
to connect and enable teams of innovators to tackle space exploration
challenges.

“(With) the interconnectedness that we have in the world now, you can
get people with so many different ideas and experience levels and
backgrounds that can approach problems from a perspective that you would
never even consider,” said Clay Ellis, a McMurdo Ground Station operator
with NASA’s Space Communications Network Services (SCNS) project, in a
Gov2.0 Radio Podcast interview. “Just the amount of creativity there is
and the hundreds of ways there are to solve problems….This is how
problems are going to be solved in the future.”

.. _here: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/appel/ask-academy/issues/volume5/5-5_int_space_apps.html
.. _International Space Apps Challenge: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
