Spaceport Innovators at KSC
###########################
:date: 2011-09-06 12:03
:author: agllewel
:category: OpenGov
:tags: community, Innovation, Inspiration, KSC, Participation
:slug: spaceport-innovators-at-ksc

**The Open Government Initiative was excited to invite KSC's `David
Miranda`_ and `Ariel Pavlick`_ to share about how they are increasing
the awesome at their center with transparency, participation, and
collaboration. **

 

 

*“Some would say that those struggles are all over, that all the
horizons have been explored, that all the battles have been won, that
there is no longer an American frontier. But I trust that no one in this
assemblage would agree with that sentiment; for the problems are not all
solved and the battles are not all won; and we stand today on the edge
of a New Frontier, the frontier of unfilled hopes and unfilled
threats...*

*…The New Frontier is here whether we seek it or not.” *

John F. Kennedy spoke these words at the 1960 Democratic National
Convention in Los Angeles nearly a year before he challenged NASA to
send an American to the moon. Over fifty years later these words are
still relevant as NASA enters a new era of its history in which we are
being challenged to in many ways start anew, to do things differently,
and to work with new and old partners to achieve our goals. In order to
meet these challenges we need to evolve, embrace change, and most
importantly innovate.

At Kennedy Space Center (KSC) we have started a group called the
Spaceport Innovators; membership is open to everyone on center and
includes both civil servants and contractors from nearly every
directorate. Our backgrounds are diverse; our drive to innovate and
improve how we do business is common.

Spaceport Innovators started as a cryptic and, yet, enticing email sent
to a couple dozen KSC civil servants. In the email, we were challenged
to brainstorm a new and different way to think about our Center.  From
the facilities, organizations, partnerships, geography, launch vehicles,
and market competition: everything was on the table. How could we make
the best space center today, for the next program and for the next 50
years, as our budget and programs fluctuated?

We agreed we need to maintain the unity, technical skills and
perseverance that the workforce embodied at the end of the Shuttle
program, but we additionally need to retool our skills and make them
relevant not just for the technical challenges ahead but for the
organizational and cultural whiplash we anticipate as we move to a new
era in Space Exploration. Quickly, our focus moved from what the
facilities need to look like, to what our organization and culture need
to embrace.

We also realized that to truly innovate we will need to have a greater
diversity of thought. Innovators are not just a select group of people
chosen by management. The entire Center needs to be included, and so we
became more open. Our meetings are now advertised in the Center Daily
News and our website is open to all of NASA. And so from these
beginnings an informal organization has been formed around disseminating
information, rethinking how we work, and dreaming about the future of
spaceflight.

Our Vision and Mission are simple:

Vision: To think beyond the norm and improve the way we do things at
Kennedy Space Center

Mission: To foster innovation and lead change through collaboration,
communication, and knowledge sharing. Spaceport Innovators will serve as
an incubator for innovative ideas and help launch them towards success.

We meet about twice a month and discuss a variety of topics that can be
of interest to our community. Topics such as:

-  innovation success stories like Project Morpheus and the Max Launch
   Abort System,
-  technology demonstrations like the Harris Corp. Force Feedback
   Robotic System,
-  introductions to resources that innovators can use such as Space Act
   Agreements and KSC’s Technology Integration Office,
-  sources of funding and partnership opportunities like the Center
   Innovation Fund and the NASA EPSCoR (Experimental Project to
   Stimulate Competitive Research) program, and
-  even long term far reaching and future looking topics like the DARPA
   100 Year Starship Study and a proposal for a Network of Ground and
   Space-based Spaceports.

In the future we hope to find and push forward the innovative ideas that
exist at all corners of our Center. We want to help accelerate the
successful development of intrapreneurial and innovative teams by
providing them an array of support resources through our network of
contacts. We also want to better connect with other groups like ours
across NASA, share our ideas, and learn more from the many other
innovative thinkers across the Agency.

Kennedy ended his famous 1960 speech with words that still echo today:

*“That is the choice our nation must make -- a choice that lies between
the public interest and private comfort, between national greatness and
national decline, between the fresh air of progress and the stale, dank
atmosphere of "normalcy," between dedication or mediocrity.*

*All mankind waits upon our decision. A whole world looks to see what we
shall do. And we cannot fail that trust. And we cannot fail to try..."*

For more information about Spaceport Innovators please visit our
(internal) website at: https://sp.ksc.nasa.gov/sites/spaceportinnovators

Also, join us on our Yammer site at:
https://www.yammer.com/nasa.gov/groups/spaceportinnovators

|SPI-Logo-Small|

 

 

 

 

 

.. _David Miranda: mailto:david.j.miranda@nasa.gov
.. _Ariel Pavlick: mailto:ariel.d.pavlick@nasa.gov

.. |SPI-Logo-Small| image:: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/SPI-Logo-Small.jpg
