Title: #SpaceApps Hangouts
Date: 2013-04-18 04:33
Author: Ali Llewellyn
email: adllewellyn@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Slug: spaceapps-hangouts

How do you enable 7000+ people to work together over 83 hours and across
24 time zones? One of those tools is hangouts! Hangouts provide a forum
for video, voice and text collaboration between different locations, and
they will be a key piece of our Space Apps collaboration strategy. Some
hangouts will be pre-planned (like the ones you see below) - some will
happen more serendipitously as collaborations come together. Some
projects have already done introductory Hangouts to introduce their
efforts, like [openROV][].  However they happen, we definitely need your
help to get the word out at your event and in your language to get and
keep everyone connected! *(We'll add additional major hangouts here if
new ones are planned going forward.) *

**Thursday, April 18:**[*See the linked information about all KSC
hangouts.*][]

[Deployable Greenhouse][*See the linked information about all KSC
hangouts.*] (9:15am EDT/1:15pm GMT) Ask questions with the hashtag
\#deploygreen.

[Bootstrapping of the Lunar Space Industry][*See the linked information
about all KSC hangouts.*] (12:15pm EDT/4:15pm GMT) Ask questions with
the hashtag \#moonville.

[Envision Kennedy Space Center Spaceport 2040][*See the linked
information about all KSC hangouts.*] (2:30pm EDT/6:30pm GMT) Ask
questions with the hashtag \#KSC2040.

**Saturday, April 20: **

**[Madrid hangout][]** (1:00pm CET/11:00am GMT) Ask questions with the
hashtag \#spaceapps \#Madrid.

**Of course, there are ASTRONAUTS!** (12 noon EDT/4:00pm GMT) Ask
questions with the hashtag \#spaceapps \#askAstro. *Astronauts Leland
Melvin (from Space Apps Philly), Samantha Cristoforetti (from Space Apps
Rome) and Ron Garan (from Space Apps NYC) will talk about their training
as crewmembers, experiences in space (or soon-to-come experiences!) and
why they think Space Apps is so valuable. *

[Deployable Greenhouse][*See the linked information about all KSC
hangouts.*] \#2 (2:10pm EDT/6:10pm GMT) Ask questions with the hashtag
\#deploygreen.

**[Unlimited Space Agency][]** (8:00pm BST/7:00pm GMT) Ask questions
with the hashtag \#spaceapps \#askJon.*Wonder about Jon Spooner and real
participation in exploration? Just watch him [here][] as he shares from
Space Apps Exeter last year on 'Hacking My Way to Space.' *

[Bootstrapping of the Lunar Space Industry][*See the linked information
about all KSC hangouts.*] \#2 (3:10pm EDT/7:10pm GMT) Ask questions with
the hashtag \#moonville.

[Envision Kennedy Space Center Spaceport 2040][*See the linked
information about all KSC hangouts.*] \#2 (4:10pm EDT/8:10pm GMT) Ask
questions with the hashtag \#KSC2040.

**NASA JPL Innovation Foundry** (2:00pm PDT/9:00pm GMT) Ask questions
with the hashtag \#spaceapps \#askJPL. *How are the space-science
missions of tomorrow being formulated? The JPL Innovation Foundry was
created in 2011 to respond to this evolving context. The Foundry
integrates methods, tools, and experts that span the mission concept
lifecycle. *

**Sunday, April 20: **

[**Cubesats for Exploration**][] (11:00am MDT/5:00pm GMT) Ask questions
with the hashtag \#spaceapps \#cubesats. *Working on a Cubesat project?
Join Stephen Murphey from the DIY Space Revolution as he shares thoughts
about the importance of cubesats and their place in the ecosystem as
well as takes questions about cubesat projects. *

All Hangouts on Air will be announced via the [@spaceapps Twitter][] and
broadcast on the [Space Apps Challenge YouTube Channel][] so plan to
tune in! (or to watch later if it happens in the middle of the night for
you...)

[caption id="attachment\_8152" align="aligncenter" width="580"][![Space
Apps Jakarta last year 'hanging out' with astronaut Ron Garan and Space
Apps Project Manager Kristen Painting.][]][] Space Apps Jakarta team
last year 'hanging out' with astronaut Ron Garan and Space Apps Project
Manager Kristen Painting from the San Francisco event.[/caption]

  [openROV]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=b91CcuttprY
  [*See the linked information about all KSC hangouts.*]: http://spaceappsksc.tumblr.com/post/48175986892/google-hangouts-for-ksc-challenges
  [Madrid hangout]: https://plus.google.com/115615919709971341694/posts
  [Unlimited Space Agency]: http://unsa.org.uk/
  [here]: http://vimeo.com/40770410
  [**Cubesats for Exploration**]: http://stephenmurphey.com/
  [@spaceapps Twitter]: https://twitter.com/spaceapps
  [Space Apps Challenge YouTube Channel]: http://www.youtube.com/user/AppsChallenge
  [Space Apps Jakarta last year 'hanging out' with astronaut Ron Garan
  and Space Apps Project Manager Kristen Painting.]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/2012-04-21-22.26.49-1024x764.jpg
  [![Space Apps Jakarta last year 'hanging out' with astronaut Ron Garan
  and Space Apps Project Manager Kristen Painting.][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/2012-04-21-22.26.49.jpg
