Title: Space Ipsum
Date: 2011-11-13 17:49
Author: sherron
Category: OpenGov
Tags: django, lorem ipsum, sciencehackday, spaceipsum, webapp
Slug: space-ipsum

Lorem Ipsum is the standard filler text used in design throughout the
world. It’s been the standards since the 1500’s and it’s time for an
update. The NASA OpenGov team took the opportunity at Science Hack Day
to create a new online tool to generate filler text based on a database
of historical space quotes. The project serves as an example of what can
be done to utilize historic NASA data and mash it up in a new and
exciting way. Although a “lorem ipsum” generator may seem
inconsequential at first glance, the weekend project will serve as the
backbone to a future data mashup project for the NASA OpenGov team. We’d
appreciate your comments and feedback and have provided more information
about the history of Lorem Ipsum and the tool we’ve created below.

**The History of Lorem Ipsum**

[Lorem ipsum][] is slightly jumbled latin, the remnants of a [sections
1.10.32–3][Lorem ipsum] from Cicero’s ”[*de Finibus Bonorum et
Malorum*][]” (The Extremes of Good and Evil), which begins with the
words 'Neque porro quisquam est qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet,
consectetur, adipisci velit...' which means “*there is no one who loves
pain itself, who seeks after it and wants to have it, simply because it
is pain*”. [Written in 45 BC][], this treatise on the theory of ethics
was very popular in the Renaisance, and the jumpled version of the text
started to be used in the 1500’s as filler text for designers and has
been the industry standard since then.

**Why use Lorem Ipsum?**

Lorem Ipsum text is used because readable text is often a distraction
during the design process. For example, when designing a website, a
designer will insert lorem ipsum text if the place of real text. Instead
of looking at the layout to find the problems or weak spots, people will
unconsciously focus on the words. For years, designers have depended on
this latin gibberish to help them to focus on the positioning, spacing,
color, and other stylistic elements.

**Space Ipsum**

There are a number of online tools and Lorem Ipsum generators, the most
popular being [Lipsum][], that help designers generate the exact amount
of filler text they require, but they often lack personality. There are
[a few out there that innovate on the concept][]. For example, [Hipster
Ipsum][], mashes up hipster culture with latin text, and [Cup Cake
Ipsum][], adds a bits of text like "*chocolate bar danish*" to the
filler text - and that got us thinking - wouldn’t it be great to have a
generator that uses historic space quotes?

The "space ipsum" generator produces random filler content that you can
use for a number of purposes ranging from website design to school
essays. We do not recommend using text generated from a random content
generator for your school essays.

To use the generator, visit [Space Ipsum][], and simply enter a number
and then click "engage". The output will be a selection of content
generated from a database of famous quotes from the history of
spaceflight. Additionally, you can choose to output the content in HTML
format by checking the appropriate button.

**Responsive Design**

The Space Ipsum site also perhaps NASA's first experiment in responsive
design - the idea the content should not dictate the look and feel of
the site.  No matter what type of platform you view the website on,
you'll always be able to access it's core features due to the use of
CSS3 media queries. This is an evolution in web design and represents
the future of how web design should act.  The site also features some of
NASA's historic space images that load as the background randomly when a
user visits the site.  We've put the code on github and encourage others
to use it for their purposes.

**What’s Next**

The side-project actually lays the foundation for a bigger project we
are working on that mashes up historic NASA content in a new and useful
way, but we’ll save the details on that project for another blog post in
the near future.

 

  [Lorem ipsum]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lorem_ipsum
  [*de Finibus Bonorum et Malorum*]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_finibus_bonorum_et_malorum
  [Written in 45 BC]: http://support.microsoft.com/kb/114222/en-us
  [Lipsum]: http://www.lipsum.com/
  [a few out there that innovate on the concept]: http://getbraizen.com/2011/10/lorem-ipsum-do-huh/
  [Hipster Ipsum]: http://hipsteripsum.me/
  [Cup Cake Ipsum]: http://cupcakeipsum.com/
  [Space Ipsum]: http://spaceipsum.com/
