Title: Teaching Learning
Date: 2011-05-24 19:56
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Education, Innovation, Open Innovation, Outreach
Slug: teaching-learning

Recently I was privileged to attend the Conrad Foundation’s Spirit of
Innovation Awards (<http://conradawards.org/>) at Ames Research Center
in Mountain View, CA. The program encourages teams of high school
students to address specific problems in the categories of Aerospace
Exploration, Clean Energy and Cyber Security. The students then pitch
their innovations and their business plans to judges, with the winning
team in each category receiving a \$5000 grant to fund their project
development.

**Passion and Legitimacy**  
One of my favorite speakers was Nick Tarascio, CEO of AirEast Airways.
He stirred up the students (and particularly the teachers!) by
suggesting that maybe college was not just unnecessary to accomplish
their dreams, but actually (with the debt burden frequently incurred)
could stand in the way of their dreams. Was there a better way to learn
and to succeed?

Nick’s argument was that fundamentally *passion* is what gives you
*legitimacy*. There’s no shortage of work, just a shortage of people to
pay you. Are you interested in an industry or a subject? Stop waiting
for a job, go and offer to add value.  You can have conversations with
the greatest minds in history by reading *books*. He talked about his
involvement in projects like [www.skillshare.com][] where anyone can
come and learn – if they want to – and Couchsurfing University, which
intentionally networks an already curious population and tells them to
come live with those who do what they want to learn. *Being surrounded
by the people who are talented and driven and know how to LEARN is most
valuable thing*, Nick emphasized to these students.

We believe in you and bring you here so you can learn how you *learn*.

What a great way for NASA (along with many of the other partners for the
event) to say: not ‘let us teach you something’ but *‘let us show you
how to be a learner.’*

I wonder what NASA could look like if this was the case – if we made a
way that those who wanted to learn could come and do so. Professional
degrees are obviously necessary for people in certain fields. But what
would happen at NASA if we invested in those with the right motivation
and the right passion – instead of just the right degree? What would
change about the level of engagement of our own workforce - not even
talking about the public! Who could come contribute toward the vision
for space exploration who might otherwise have too many barriers in
front of them?

**Open Innovation as Education Outreach**  
What’s particularly special about the Innovation Summit is the
organization’s vision to offer something truly different. They are
committed to **transform the high school experience by combining
innovation, entrepreneurship, and education**. The Spirit of Innovation
Awards program invites students to think differently and create real,
innovative products to solve real problems.

On a recent visit to IDEO in Palo Alto, CA, we looked at their new open
innovation site: [www.openideo.com][]. All creative thinkers are invited
to sign on and participate in addressing real challenges. These
challenges, like *how can we better manage human waste in low-income
urban communities? How can we better connect food production and
consumption? How can we raise kids’ awareness of fresh food so they can
make better choices?*, aren’t questions that need Ph.Ds – just passion,
and curiosity, and creative thinking.

I started to think about how often in my education experience we are
making up problems for students to think about, rather than giving them
real problems. NASA has taken incredible strides with open innovation,
crowdsourcing some of our biggest problems to citizen scientists.
Couldn’t we extend our practice of open innovation to E&O too? NASA’s
questions aren’t only technical aerospace issues. Technology could free
us to create a forum for two-way discussion. They may not be able to
answer questions like how to create radiation shielding for certain
spacecraft designs (or maybe they could!) But these students could
certainly make incredible contributions toward real questions about
engagement and awareness and direction of exploration.

Do we do this at NASA – truly incentivize creating products that solve
real problems? Do we think of [education outreach][] as just content –
or as method too? Maybe what NASA should be teaching is not content so
much as it is inviting students to creative problem solving. OpenIDEO is
the place where ‘people design better, together.’ What if NASA was the
place where <span style="color: #993300">**‘people explore better,
together’**</span>?

![Spirit of Innovation][]

 

President Obama recently emphasized how the US needs to be committed to
STEM education to get past this recession. “We want to start making
Science cool. I want people to feel about the next big energy
breakthrough and the next big Internet breakthrough the same way they
felt about the moonwalk,” he said.

“There’s so many problems, we’re not running out of problems,”
Foundation director Nancy Conrad said, emphasizing that you need to get
kids excited about Science, Math and Technology in order build a viable
workforce. “When you’ve got juiced kids who really want to do something,
they don’t know there’s a box. And then all they do is think outside the
box. This is where geeks turn into rockstars, and that’s the game
changer. That’s where you can change the culture of students.”

**What do you think? Have we thought about how to turn geeks into
rockstars? About how to make room for the ones who really want to *do*
something?**

  [www.skillshare.com]: http://www.skillshare.com
  [www.openideo.com]: http://www.openideo.com
  [education outreach]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/education/about/index.html
  [Spirit of Innovation]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/photo.jpg
