Tell me a story...
##################
:date: 2012-07-09 14:58
:author: msengupta
:category: OpenGov
:slug: tell-me-a-story

*This post by `Madi Sengupta`_ was originally written in May 2010. We
share it here to encourage us to think about the stories we have to tell
- and how important it is that we commit to telling them. *

Last night, as I drove down NASA Parkway, I glanced towards the dimly
lit buildings littered across the Johnson Space Center (JSC) property. A
part of an actual Saturn V lay ahead, just past the silhouetted trees of
the Memorial Garden, where the heroes and legends of human spaceflight
past are honored for their contributions and sacrifices. My eyes
traveled a bit further to the right, where a gleaming American flag
stood proud and tall, atop a building that holds tremendous significance
for those of us who’ve had even a minute aspiration to contribute to
space exploration – the Mission Control Center.

JSC is an interesting amalgamation of new and old, a distinct dichotomy
of past and present; where many buildings stand, having weathered
decades of political, societal, even meteorological storms. Time and
technology’s marks have been left on their interiors, which have endured
series of renovations and upgrades.

Last week, strolling through the relatively empty parking lot of Mission
Control, I thought a lot about the role and duty we have as space
enthusiasts to reach out and engage the general public, who’re unaware
of the vast benefits and implications of the human spaceflight program.

Over the next few days, I had a bit of an enlightening moment.

On February 1st of this year, the President announced his new plan for
NASA. Add whatever superlative you’d like to describe the plan, but one
thing one cannot deny is that it is, in fact, quite dissimilar from what
we are used to. I mean, he’s talking about landing on an
asteroid…Armageddon-style (clearly not how we’d do it, but I say that
simply to emphasize a point: that’s what the public will think of as
soon as this plan is officially adopted).

The transition is soon to be upon us, and as I pondered this, I came to
the following realization: what better way to approach and work through
a transition than actively work to communicate NASA and human
spaceflight’s value to those around us, in whatever small way we can?

Think about this before the thought is discounted.

Think about the societal impact that human spaceflight has made over the
years. In its peak of popularity amongst the general public, those very
same people – the taxpayers – knew *exactly* what NASA was doing. After
all, we had a singular goal: beat the Russians to the moon. Easy to
stand behind a single goal, right?

Understandably, as technology has developed, so, too, have the agency’s
goals…to the point where the average Joe Schmo no longer has a clear
idea of what NASA is trying to accomplish, or even what the agency is
working on across its ten centers.

So, what does this mean? The unique thing, in my eyes, about the
spaceflight community is the number of advocates it has, in and out of
the ranks of the agency and its contracting community. There are space
enthusiasts of varying levels not just across the US, but across the
world. Space exploration has a magical influence on those who crave
adventure that overpowers every sense and engulfs the mind. It’s that
inexplicable feeling of overwhelming excitement and fascination that
I’ve yet been able to articulate into words, and not for a lack of
trying, I might add.

In my last post, I challenged the NASA employees and the NASA Tweetup
participants. I mentioned that we have a collective responsibility to
engage those around us and communicate the excitement we felt at the
time of our space “firsts.” And after thinking about this over the last
few days, I realized that it’s not just those affiliated with NASA who
have this obligation. It’s a responsibility we must all share as space
enthusiasts, regardless of whether we’ve set foot inside any one of
NASA’s centers.

Just think about the implications of turning to your friend, who doesn’t
even know that Atlantis and her crew were hard at work these last couple
of weeks, who may not even know that we had *twelve* people living and
breathing *off* the planet, who may not even know that we have had
continuous human presence in space for *so many years*, and telling
him/her about ALL of those things and more. What if we worked
collectively and actively over the next several months to excite those
around us with those facts and our own personal stories? What if,
through this transition, more and more people learned about all the
interesting and exciting things that NASA has done in the past,
continues to do, and most importantly, all of the great number of
achievements left before us? After all…hello, 21st **century**,
adventure is calling, and we really need to answer. Asteroids? Sure!
Mars? You betcha! The possibilities are truly limitless. And I should
insert a note here to deter naysayers from commenting on the current
future of our space program: I purposely bolded century, as we have a
long ways to go until the end…the century does not end after the next
election cycle, nor after 2020 when we were supposed to have a US human
presence on the moon, and definitely not after 2030 when humans were to
live on Mars.

My naïve, little mind tells me that this could perhaps be the silver
lining to the grey cloud of transition. I don’t see the lack of our
national capability to send people into LEO as a negative thing anymore.
Sure, it stinks a little bit…but as we work to build the next generation
of vehicles, there’s no reason we can’t help to inspire the next
generation of explorers.

Work large, work small…it doesn’t matter how many people you reach out
to, but think about the implication of just this small action.

Stories are powerful…and personal stories, they convey the emotions and
subtleties that a simple third-hand recounting just cannot. Think back
to the first time you saw Mission Control, or the first time you met an
astronaut, the first time you saw the Space Shuttle roar to the sky, or
even the first time an astronaut wrote to you on Twitter. Think about
the excitement that you felt and the awe that it inspired. Think about
getting to share that feeling, about getting to share in that passion
with someone else. There’s no reason we can’t all, in our own way, tell
people about the amazing experiences we’ve had, whether it’s working at
NASA or just visiting.

I’ve realized over the course of the last two weeks the true impact of
communicating our story to those around me. Engaging, even after the
event, with the NASA Tweetup participants has demonstrated to me, in a
profoundly significant way, the true greatness of the opportunity I
have. Not until yesterday did I realize the unique vantage point I’m
privy to…the ability (and now the willingness) to tell all of the people
I get to meet through these opportunities about the amazing things NASA
does.

So, I extend my challenge – not to just you, but myself, as well. You
all share that unique perspective, in one form or another, as space
enthusiasts.

*How will you capitalize on it?*

.. _Madi Sengupta: http://www.linkedin.com/in/madhuritasengupta
