Title: The Fragile Oasis Prize Medal Winners
Date: 2013-07-20 21:13
Author: Ron Garan
Category: OpenGov
Tags: fragile oasis
Slug: the-fragile-oasis-prize-medal-winners

*We're excited to share this update from [Fragile Oasis][], one of
open.NASA's favorite communities. Fragile Oasis is NASA's grassroots
initiative that connects the orbital perspective of astronauts who live
and work in space with people who want to make a difference on Earth. *

Today, on the 44th anniversary of humanity's first steps on the Moon and
the 3rd anniversary of the birth of [Fragile Oasis][] as a platform for
collaboration we are thrilled to announce that three Fragile Oasis
community projects have earned the Fragile Oasis Prize Medal for making
a positive impact in Education, Humanitarian Service and Peace.

Of the 120 projects submitted from all over the world, Fragile Oasis
crewmembers selected [nine semi-finalists][] making a difference in
Argentina, Canada, Rwanda, Somalia, Sudan, and in the United States. And
then, over a 30-day period, crewmembers voted for one project in each
category to receive a medal that flew with me for a half year on my last
mission to the International Space Station.

The winners of the Fragile Oasis Prize Medal are:

[Free the Water:][] The brainchild of D.M.J. March, a young Canadian who
works tenaciously to raise awareness about Earth’s water and how
humanity uses this most precious resource.

[![Free-the-Water][]][Free-the-Water]

[Convoy for Hope – Food for Famine Relief in Somalia:][] An initiative
of the Global Enrichment Foundation and an act of courage inspired by
its founder, Amanda Lindhout.

[![Convoy-for-Hope][]][Convoy-for-Hope]

[World’s Biggest Dream Board:][] Juliette Wallen’s challenge to make the
world a better place, born in one California town and now spreading all
over in social media, the biggest small town of them all.

[![Worlds-Biggest-Dream-Board][]][Worlds-Biggest-Dream-Board]

D.M.J., Amanda and Juliette will be joining me for a Google + hangout
next week, where we will discuss their individual efforts and how people
everywhere can work together to improve life on Earth.

I’m excited and honored to spend time with people who are working to
make life on our Fragile Oasis as beautiful for all as it is visibly
beautiful from space. The Key is WE!

[![Ron-Garan-The-Key-Is-We][]][Ron-Garan-The-Key-Is-We]

  [Fragile Oasis]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/
  [nine semi-finalists]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/blog/2013/07/making-an-impact-the-fragile-oasis-prize-medal-nominees/
  [Free the Water:]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/projects/free-the-water/
  [Free-the-Water]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Free-the-Water.png
  [Convoy for Hope – Food for Famine Relief in Somalia:]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/projects/convoy-for-hope/
  [Convoy-for-Hope]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Convoy-for-Hope.png
  [World’s Biggest Dream Board:]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/projects/worlds-biggest-dream-board/
  [Worlds-Biggest-Dream-Board]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Worlds-Biggest-Dream-Board.png
  [Ron-Garan-The-Key-Is-We]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Ron-Garan-The-Key-Is-We.png
