Title: The power of hackathons in government
Date: 2012-06-29 12:28
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: collaboration, government, Hackathons, Participation, participatory exploration, RHoK, space apps
Slug: the-power-of-hackathons-in-government

Chris Vein (US deputy CTO for government innovation) has continually
supported the use of hackathons in developing government innovation. He
[noted][] that these events were exceptional as a ‘sensemaking’ tool for
government, encouraging agencies to "…find groups of people, bring them
together around an issue or problem that needs to be fixed, then step
out of the way and let the collective energy of the people in the room
come together and really take that data and solve things in creative and
imaginative ways that we would never have done ourselves."

**So what does that mean for us at NASA? **

We are constantly on the lookout for [game-changing ideas and
technologies][] – and hackathons can often be the source of exactly
those kinds of new ideas. We’re committed to [*provide for the widest
practicable and appropriate dissemination of information concerning our
activities and the results thereof*][] – and hackathons frequently show
us insights and applications that we never would have imagined coming
from our own work. These technology development events don’t give us all
the answers – but they engage the public in exploration of our data and
our challenges in creative and compelling ways, sparking a flame that
just might become something big and powerful. A hackathon isn’t a
product, it’s an *approach* – and the key to using this “tool in the
toolkit” successfully is to invest the effort to identify the right
problem statements, provide the supporting data, and get a good mix of
people in the room.

As Tim O’Reilly noted, government, at its core, is about **doing
together what we can’t do alone**. It’s why we believe that [citizen
engagement is vital for space exploration][], and it’s the key to answer
‘why a hackathon.’

NASA offers a singular perspective on and understanding of our universe
and our Earth’s place in it. With an enormous amount of remote sensing
data, Earth observation imagery, and technological expertise, hackathons
provides a platform and resources to help equip volunteers to address
those global problems, creating a forum for **mass collaboration around
open data**.

Our team is frequently asked about how our efforts related to NASA’s
other challenge offerings like the [Innovation Pavilion][], [Centennial
Challenges][], or [NASA Tournament Lab][]. Each of these programs offers
unique and specialized opportunities for public engagement in technology
development and represents a vital element in NASA’s open innovation
portfolio. Many of them operate under the federal Prizes and Challenges
authority/America COMPETES Act, [“accelerating problem-solving by
tapping America’s top talent and best expertise wherever it may lie.”][]
At the same time, they are very different platforms serving a unique
role in government innovation - hackathons are non-monetized mass
collaborations that differ widely from those monetized prize
competitions (see the [challenge.gov][] platform) that have been the
trend in government over the past few years.

NYC’s Chief Digital Officer Rachel Sterne noted that mass collaborations
bridge sectors and connect the government and technology communities
with a shared challenge, encouraging collaborative problem solving and a
more open government. Monetized competitions often aren’t able to access
these same benefits. Hackathons are incredibly effective at building
community; making and creating together forges deep and powerful
connections across people, communities, and organizations.

Hackathons also feature an open design process, equipping developers
directly with the data that they need and clearly demonstrating what the
public wants and needs. The commitment to open, agile development and
open source licensing – as opposed to a more compartmentalized
procurement process – produces a product better connected to the
agency’s original need as well as to the public’s interest and
expertise.

The process of a hackathon provides a fundamentally different product
because it engages a full community of citizens who purposely
collaborate in the real work of their government – in this case, the
work of “reaching for new heights and revealing the unknown.” Hackathons
create a mechanism for the public to share feedback and ideas via access
to government decision makers. Creative and innovative concepts are
introduced that help evolve government to be more efficient and
effective. “Politics is not changing; government is changing, and
because government ultimately derives its power from us (remember we the
people) *how we think about it is going to affect how that change
happens*.” explained Code for America's Jennifer Pahlka.

Events like the [International Space Apps Challenge][] really do
represent how a new generation is tackling the challenges of government:
**with collective action**. The future of government requires engaged
citizens who are contributing their skills and talents to the core
mission of exploring the unknown and pioneering the future. The key to
improving life on Earth – and enabling us to explore further into the
universe – is to roll up our sleeves, do it together, and then let it go
viral, [just like Jennifer describes][]. NASA needs technology to tackle
the grand challenges it faces – but it also needs policy specialists,
engineers, storytellers, educators, and diverse perspectives.

Jake Levitas [concludes][]: “Hackathons are incredibly effective at
creating accountability. Part of the power of prototypes and
community-building are that they drive conversation around what is
possible. If a picture is worth a thousand words, a working demo and a
team to stand behind it are worth a hundred thousand. The Government 2.0
movement has not just offered promise about how technology can reshape
government, it has completely and rapidly reformed the very notion of
government and citizen engagement, offering a fully novel suite of
previously unimaginable civic tools for government and citizens alike…
There are certainly limitations to the value that can be produced in 48
hours, no matter how numerous or how talented the people are in the
room. But the fact that this conversation is even happening — the fact
that citizen-led projects beginning as weekend prototypes are at might
be able to compete with commercial products — demonstrates just how much
potential these events have to create value and serve as a new form of
participation.”

Hackathons jumpstart change. These events build relationships between
disciplines, mine data for new useful content, develop new technology
approaches, create economic value, propel STEM education, provide
prototypes for experimentation - often at a much lower cost than other
more traditional approaches.

NASA has continually expressed its long-time commitment to [transparency
and accountability][], [disseminating its open data][] and [encouraging
participatory exploration][], and we are excited to continue to advocate
for hackathons (including NASA’s [Random Hacks of Kindness][]
partnership) as we demonstrate **what is possible***– in concept, word,
and actual prototype.*

 

“NASA will be reaping the benefits of the International Space Apps
Challenge for a very long time.”  
Chris Vein at [Open Source Summit DC][]

 

Interested in more examples of government hackathons? Follow some of the
powerful stories here:

**Vivek Kundra**’s [Apps for Democracy][] with guide to creating your
own [event][]

**USAID**’s [Food Security Challenge][] with info on how to get involved
[here][]

**EPA**’s [Apps for the Environment][] with final report/lessons learned
[here][1]

**World Bank**’s [Waterhackathon][] with final report/lessons learned
[here][2]

**State**’s [TechCamp][] and instructions to hold your own with
[TechCamp-in-a-box][]

**NASA**’s [International Space Apps Challenge][] with final
report/lessons learned [here][3] and debrief [here][4]

 

 

  [noted]: http://gov20radio.com/2012/04/countdown-spaceapps/
  [game-changing ideas and technologies]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oct/game_changing_technology/index.html
  [*provide for the widest practicable and appropriate dissemination of
  information concerning our activities and the results thereof*]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/ogc/about/space_act1.html#NASA
  [citizen engagement is vital for space exploration]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/08/26/citizen-engagement/
  [Innovation Pavilion]: https://www.innocentive.com/pavilion/NASA
  [Centennial Challenges]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oct/early_stage_innovation/centennial_challenges/index.html
  [NASA Tournament Lab]: http://community.topcoder.com/ntl/
  [“accelerating problem-solving by tapping America’s top talent and
  best expertise wherever it may lie.”]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/01/06/america-competes-act-keeps-americas-leadership-target
  [challenge.gov]: http://challenge.gov/
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [just like Jennifer describes]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2012/03/14/coding-for-better-government/
  [concludes]: http://www.gaffta.org/2012/06/19/three-incredible-things-about-civic-hackathons/
  [transparency and accountability]: http://open.nasa.gov/plan
  [disseminating its open data]: http://data.nasa.gov/
  [encouraging participatory exploration]: http://www.nasa.gov/open/plan/peo.html
  [Random Hacks of Kindness]: http://www.rhok.org/
  [Open Source Summit DC]: http://vimeo.com/44453348
  [Apps for Democracy]: http://www.appsfordemocracy.org/
  [event]: http://www.appsfordemocracy.org/guide-to-creating-your-own-apps-for-democracy/
  [Food Security Challenge]: http://agrilinks.kdid.org/open-agriculture-data-innovation-challenge
  [here]: http://idea.usaid.gov/g8
  [Apps for the Environment]: http://www.epa.gov/appsfortheenvironment/
  [1]: http://www.epa.gov/appsfortheenvironment/lessons.html
  [Waterhackathon]: http://www.waterhackathon.org/
  [2]: http://www.scribd.com/doc/97458967/Water-Hackathon-Lessons-Learned
  [TechCamp]: http://techcampglobal.org/
  [TechCamp-in-a-box]: http://techcampglobal.org/techcamp-in-a-box.php
  [3]: http://speakerdeck.com/u/skytland/p/international-space-apps-challenge-summary-report
  [4]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/debrief
