Title: The Space Industry Needs Open Standards to Thrive
Date: 2013-03-26 13:38
Author: Ali Llewellyn
email: adllewellyn@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Tags: International Space Apps Challenge, open hardware, Open Source
Slug: the-space-industry-needs-open-standards-to-thrive

*Stephen Murphey is a [DIY Space Technology Evangelist ][]researching
how the Open Source and Maker Movement will revolutionize the space
industry. The Open Innovation Program has invited him to share his
insights on open standards and their role in the aerospace industry
leading up to him sharing more during the [International Space Apps
Challenge][].  *

Open Standards available for everyone to use in the space industry are
the best way to reduce costs, improve safety and keeping making ground
breaking innovations. One of the best known successes in “Open Standards
for Space” are [cubesats][], those tiny little spacecraft built on a
common platform that have become a favorite among the DIY Space
community.

**Making spacecraft Cheaper and Easier to Build**

I’ll be the first to admit that Cubesats aren’t perfect. They’re tiny,
limited in the kinds of missions they can perform (functions are
improving every day though) and getting a ride to orbit is still
prohibitively expensive and difficult. But they are an order of
magnitude cheaper and easier to design, build and launch because they
are built on Open Standards. Because anyone can build upon the platform,
thousands of people have found innovative uses for them and a few have
built companies to [sell the hardware][] to do so. If the Cubesat design
and remained on some engineers shelf as closely held intellectual
property, none of this would have happened.

Open Standards also enable cost reductions through [mass production][]
of hardware. Because we’re not “reinventing the wheel” with each new
spacecraft and instead building them based on predefined and proven
components...each spacecraft is cheaper to build. Fortunately, we’re
starting to see this all across the space industry. Companies like
Sierra Nevada, Orbital Sciences and Lockheed Martin are building
spacecraft based on common designs. Unfortunately, those designs are
usually based on proprietary knowledge and are not shared with the wider
community. This does make business sense, after all why would a company
willingly share knowledge they’ve spent years and millions of dollars
creating?

Because it will make those designs better while growing the industry.

**Open Standards Improve Products**

Think of it this way. Which product is more likely to remain competitive
and low cost? A design that is supported and tested by thousands of
experts or a design that is supported by a few dozen (all of whom are on
the payroll)?

One of the best known examples is the software industry. Many software
startups were built on what is referred to as “LAMP stack” - Linux,
Apache, MySQL and PHP. The software was free, proven and supported by a
community of tens of thousands of programmers that were improving it
every day. There was no possible way a proprietary piece of software
could remain competitive and so value moved higher up the foodchain.
Instead of making money building database software, a company had to
make something valuable with database software. Because companies could
focus on building amazing services with the software rather than
building the infrastructure to get started, new companies were born.
Companies like Google, Facebook, Twitter and many others.

**But Hardware is Different, Right?**

At this point you’re probably thinking that hardware is different. The
market is smaller and building stuff actually costs money, unlike
software which can be replicated for free. Then let me introduce you to
Makerbot, the company credited with ushering in the consumer 3D printer
revolution.

But Makerbot didn’t invent the 3D printer. Their first design “cupcake”
was based on RepRap, a Open Source Hardware design supported by the
community. While anyone could download the RepRap design and build their
own, it was limited to a small group of people with the skills to
actually build a printer from scratch. Makerbot modified the design to
make it easier to manufacture and use, sold it as an “easy to build” kit
and provided customer support. This opened up 3D printing to a larger
audience who were interested but couldn’t afford a commercial version or
have the skills to build one themselves. All made possible because the
initial “Open Standard” of 3D printing was made available.

**What Comes Next?**

Do I actually expect companies like Boeing to share their proprietary
designs? Nope. Instead what I think will happen is exactly what happened
with Cubesats. A small group of people will create a design and share it
because a) they can’t profit by keeping it secret and b) they want to
improve the design by getting feedback from others and don’t have the
money to improve it alone.

This scenario is becoming more common every day thanks to cheap
computers, design software, access to manufacturing tools (Techshop is a
great example of this) and free knowledge sharing made possible by the
Internet.

Best of all, Open Standards mean that everyone can get involved. Want to
improve the Cubesat design or make a better 3D printed rocket engine?
You don’t need to ask permission or pay someone to get started.

So what are you waiting for?

** **

 

*([Banner image][] is courtesy of Steve Jurvetson under Creative
Commons)*

  [DIY Space Technology Evangelist ]: http://stephenmurphey.com/open-source-space-program/
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [cubesats]: http://stephenmurphey.com/what-are-cubesats/
  [sell the hardware]: http://stephenmurphey.com/where-to-buy-cubesat-parts/
  [mass production]: http://michaelbelfiore.com/2012/11/spacecraft-mass-production.html
  [Banner image]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/jurvetson/5479393514/
