Title: The Roadmap for Digital Government
Date: 2012-06-20 14:15
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: digital strategy, Innovation, mobile apps, White House
Slug: the-roadmap-for-digital-government

*[This recent post][] by US Chief Information Officer [Steven van
Roekel][] is cross-posted from the White House blog. We post it here to
provoke ongoing discussion about the implications of the Digital
Strategy for NASA and other government agencies. *

When the Internet revolution arrived in the 1990s, the U.S. Government
embraced this new medium to interact with the American people. Today,
what started as basic information pages has evolved into sophisticated
transactional systems that allow us to pay taxes online, download
medical records, and so much more.

Like the 1990s, we are now in the midst of another important shift in
how people consume and deliver information and services. In 2011, global
smartphone shipments exceeded personal computer shipments for the first
time in history, and more Americans will soon access the Internet via
mobile devices than desktop PCs. The rise of mobile further compounds
the challenge of providing high-quality digital services in a
cost-effective and efficient manner.

That’s why President Obama issued a directive today to make important
services accessible from your phone and charged me with developing a
comprehensive strategy to build a 21st Century Digital Government that
delivers better digital services to the American people.

Today marks the launch of that [Digital Government Strategy][This recent
post] (PDF / HTML5).

At its core, the strategy takes a coordinated, information- and
customer-centric approach to changing how the government works and
delivers services to the American people. Designing for openness from
the start – making open data the default for government IT systems and
embracing the use of web APIs – enables us to more easily deliver
information and services through multiple channels, including mobile,
and engage the public and America’s entrepreneurs as partners in
building a better government.

Treating the government as an open platform in this way encourages
innovation. Just look at how the government’s release of GPS and weather
data fueled billion dollar industries. It also makes government more
efficient and able to adapt to inevitable changes in technology.

Over the next 12 months, you will start to see an important shift across
the Federal Government. Agencies will increasingly open up their
valuable data to the public and set up Developer pages to give external
developers tools to build new services. To make sure there’s no wrong
door for accessing government data, we will transform [Data.gov][] into
a data and API catalog that in real time pulls directly from agency
websites. Agencies will mobilize two of their priority customer-facing
services, moving us closer to serving the American people anytime,
anywhere, on the device of their choice. We will do all of this while
reworking the Federal government’s own use of mobile – saving taxpayer
dollars and providing better service by bringing consistency to the way
we buy and build for an increasingly mobile workforce.

As President Obama has said, “I want us to ask ourselves every day, how
are we using technology to make a real difference in people’s lives?”
Through the Digital Government Strategy, we look forward to partnering
with America’s innovators – government, industry, and citizen leaders –
to implement the President’s vision.

  [This recent post]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/egov/digital-government/digital-government.html#top
  [Steven van Roekel]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_VanRoekel
  [Data.gov]: http://www.data.gov/
