Title: The Beginning is the Most Important Part of the Work
Date: 2013-01-24 16:50
Author: Sean Herron
Category: OpenGov
Slug: the-beginning-is-the-most-important-part-of-the-work

The past two days have been a whirlwind of excitement as people around
America discover [National Day of Civic Hacking][] and come forward to
help out. The sheer volume of interest has given me cause to step back
and think about the impact and potential behind the initiative. Our
Country faces great challenges as we move forward in the 21st century.
That said, I am reminded of the words of Plato:

> **"The beginning is the most important part of the work."**

While I would not presume to imply that the National Day of Civic
Hacking will prove to be the savior of our economy, the solution to our
changing climate, or the answer to the social inequalities that still
plague our nation, I strongly believe that it is an opportunity to
engage brilliant minds across the country to rethink civic
participation, contribute to their communities, and take an active part
in their democracy. Our country's problems can not be solved by any one
group alone. Rather, it requires the meaningful union of citizens of all
kind - including entrepreneurs. Only by utilizing a diverse array of
backgrounds, knowledge, and experience can we begin to address the
issues important to all Americans.

Our government is formed of, by, and for the people. In order for it to
succeed, the people must hold a healthy skepticism of government - but
they also must realize that it can only flourish when fed the collective
ingenuity of its citizens. Our generation's faith in government has been
tested more than ever before. However, as President Obama said on
Monday, we are made for this moment, and we will seize it - so long as
we seize it together.

I hope to see you join us as we enter the next era of democracy's Great
Experiment, and I welcome your feedback on how we can meaningfully
engage with citizens as we strive to provide opportunities for them to
engage and contribute to the United States of America.

  [National Day of Civic Hacking]: http://www.hackforchange.org
