Title: The Global Exploration Roadmap - Interactive Edition
Date: 2011-11-03 17:47
Author: drbonill
Category: OpenGov
Slug: the-global-exploration-roadmap-interactive-edition

One way of making data approachable is through accessible visualization.
The NASA Open Government team recently partnered with members of the
International Space Exploration Coordination Group (ISECG) to produce an
infographic for their Global Exploration Roadmap.

ISECG describes their effort this way:

*"The Global Exploration Roadmap reflects the international effort to
define feasible and sustainable exploration pathways to the Moon,
near-Earth asteroids, and Mars."*

The Global Exploration Roadmap discusses in detail a framework for
interagency discussion, mission scenarios, and strategies for long-range
human exploration, we felt it important to represent this information in
an accessible style. Our goal has been to distill the essence of the
Global Exploration Roadmap into a graphic document that contributes to a
conversation that can be had between a 5 and 95 year old. How did we
think we could do this? Quite simply we tried answering "where are we
going" with a map.

Influenced by 1950's Disneyland designs, video game visuals, and Peter
Pan Neverland maps, we hoped to describe the complexity of international
space projects with simple highlights. We began development of the
Global Exploration Roadmap infographic by describing it as a treasure
map of sorts.

![The initial GER sketch.][]

An initial mockup included destinations as stylized islands in a
star-filled ocean.

![GER visuals represented as islands in space.][]

We intended to show dotted paths with X-marks the spot graphics
throughout locations in the solar system. Unfortunately, this style
didn't facilitate the amount of information we'd have to show. In a
later revision we decided to take a similar approach, scaling back the
visual perspective, but chose a more traditional representation of the
solar system. We decided to keep the dotted paths and used them as a
timeline representation of missions.

![The Solar System begins to appear as the GER infographic is
developed.][]

After development of the top level design was completed we developed
clickable components, descriptions of missions and locations, and
animated transitions.

![A layer of data is added to the interactive GER.][]

We've worked hard to develop an information-rich graphic that you can
learn from and share. ISECG plans to enhance the product in the coming
year, with more information on the global effort.Â  So here it is. **Just
click the image below.**

[![View the interactive Global Exploration Roadmap.][]][]

NASA is committed to developing solutions that strengthen our
international partnerships and contribute to a better world. Like the
Global Exploration Roadmap, this infographic will evolve. We look
forward to your feedback. We think ISECG says it best:

*"By sharing early results of this work with the broader community,
space agencies hope to generate innovative ideas and solutions for
meeting the challenges ahead."*

  [The initial GER sketch.]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/GER_Resources/post/ger01.jpg
  [GER visuals represented as islands in space.]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/GER_Resources/post/ger02.jpg
  [The Solar System begins to appear as the GER infographic is
  developed.]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/GER_Resources/post/ger03.jpg
  [A layer of data is added to the interactive GER.]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/GER_Resources/post/ger04.jpg
  [View the interactive Global Exploration Roadmap.]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/GER_Resources/post/ger05.jpg
  [![View the interactive Global Exploration Roadmap.][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/exploration-roadmap/
