Title: Thoughts on Makers at NASA
Date: 2012-09-26 12:08
Author: cgerty
Category: OpenGov
Slug: thoughts-on-makers-at-nasa

Makers explore, reach into the unknown, and strive to bring something
back that makes it worth the trip.

Throughout NASA’s history, the exploration culture is easy to see - the
Apollo Program, International Space Station, the Mars Science Laboratory
and Curiosity’s 7 minutes of terror - things that bring technology and
knowledge back for humanity to use every day.

At NASA we have lofty goals, and large programs to bring them to life.
In order to make these programs succeed it requires each individual to
explore in their own role - each doer, each maker, every heart and soul.
Give them a problem and they’ll solve it! The square air duct needs to
fit in the round hole to allow the Apollo crew to breathe - the
toothbrush needs to help a critical bolt to fit into the ISS - and you
just can’t be without a mohawk-sporting attitude to put a lander the
size of a car on another planet by remote control. The teams that solve
these problems are composed of some incredibly bright, committed, and
energetic people - makers at heart, always exploring, striving for that
unknown solution.

Outside of NASA, we see a thirst for exploring the unknown in a
community that’s growing exponentially. The drive to take things apart,
tweak, hack, change, learn, and create on an individual level is spurred
on by the kinship that is created between these makers. Indeed,
reminiscent of New York City, this community never sleeps!

So join NASA and the Open Innovation Program in our quest to explore the
overlap between the explorer and maker - the similarity between folks
inside and outside NASA - and how we all can help humanity go boldly
where we have never gone before.

[Find us][] at [World Maker Faire][] this coming weekend in New York
City. We’d love to chat about all we have in common, and all of the
places we’ll go.

  [Find us]: http://makerfaire.com/pub/e/9224
  [World Maker Faire]: http://makerfaire.com/newyork/2012/
