Title: Tools for the Citizen Scientist
Date: 2011-04-15 21:20
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Infographic, Open Data, Opengov
Slug: tools-for-the-citizen-scientist

One year ago this month the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration released its Open Government Plan, in response to the
White House directive issued in December 2009, which required federal
agencies to take immediate, specific steps to achieve key milestones in
transparency, participation, and collaboration. <!--more-->  This
directive hardwired accountability into executive agencies, instructing
each to open its doors and data to the American people. More information
about the White House directive can be found
at: [www.whitehouse.gov/open][]

For over 50 years, NASA has nurtured and developed a rich culture of
openness, fostering collaboration among scientists and sharing with the
public at large the excitement surrounding scientific discoveries,
aeronautics, and space. From developing open source software and the
largest federal cloud computing platform to creating new incentivized
challenges for talented and interested members of the public, we’re
striving to incorporate open government into every facet of our mission.
 To celebrate the anniversary, NASA is providing a detailed assessment
and infographic marking its progress toward more than 150 milestones on
19 projects and 3 flagship initiatives.  The infographic includes a
status of all projects, as well as new information about NASA’s FOIA
process, released data sets, space act agreements and use of social
media. The full infographic can be viewed and downloaded
here: <http://www.nasa.gov/open/infographic.html>, or take a look below
to see a interactive illustration of the data:

![][]

 

The infographic demonstrates NASA’s commitment to make the [data][]
available – and make it useful. The visualization process balances
design \*and\* function to communicate more effectively to a wider
audience. "It's vital that as a worldwide resource NASA is ready to
communicate with the most innovative methods available. Infographics
represent an opportunity to be both engaging and insightful. By
combining NASA's data and a story about how it affects us all, we
thought this infographic should convey the sensibility at NASA that
their work isn't just about the high-tech but also about the everyday.
From the big city to the calm desert, every part of the country has the
power to make something great," explains Dennis Bonilla, Design and
Multimedia Manager who led the infographic design team. "We expect to
see great things from Citizen Scientists, and we're ready to help equip
them for that journey."

Open Government isn’t just a project or a certain group of people who
enjoy working in a different way – it’s a commitment by NASA to do its
work differently. Open Government is a statement that we value
increasing transparency, collaboration, and participation in every place
possible across the agency, and that we acknowledge that our technology,
policy, and culture will be better for having done so. Open Government
is our belief that our agency - and our government - is better when we
are fully engaged in it, talking about it and contributing to it.

What would you like to see on our next NASA Open Government infographic?

  [www.whitehouse.gov/open]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/open
  []: http://www.nasa.gov/533962main_opengov_tools_for_the_citizen.png
  [data]: http://open.nasa.gov/opendata/
