Title: Turning Space Data into Physical Apps
Date: 2013-03-06 17:36
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Data, physical apps, space apps, sxsw
Slug: turning-space-data-into-physical-apps

*The Open Innovation Program is excited to invite Jon Rogers to share
about his recent work with physical apps and space data. Jon runs the
[Product Design Masters][] at the University of Dundee in Scotland and
is currently researching how existing and emerging digital technology
can be harnessed using design to enable new forms of interaction and
production for the benefit of people.  Jon has contributed a number of
challenges to the International Space Apps Challenge, including the
popular “We Love Data” challenge in 2012. You can follow Jon on Twitter
at [@ileddigital][]. (Crosspost from Product Design Studio [here][].) *

Making data physical means that more people can access it in more ways.
Taking data from the screen and making it do things in the real world
dramatically increases the potential impact of this data. And as far as
being able to touch data that can never be touched, then space and time
have to be it.  Things that are far away or things that are lost in time
are two physical barriers we simply can’t cross and we want to find a
way to do this.

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/61137346?byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;color=ff9933" height="281" width="500" allowfullscreen frameborder="0"></iframe>

[Get Physical: Making Space Data Real On Earth][] from [jon rogers][] on
[Vimeo][].

For me, one of the most dramatic pieces of data I have come across are
the chunks of wall that are missing from the Victoria and Albert Museum
on Exhibition Road in London. I used to walk past these every day and
wondered why no one had filled them in – as the V&A is one of our most
precious buildings we have. Then one day I saw the small plaque where
these word are carved in stone.

*The damage to these walls is the result of enemy bombing during the
blitz of the Second World War 1939-1945 and is left as a memorial to the
enduring values of this museum in a time of conflict.*

* *I could literally touch the holes where shrapnel from bombs had blown
holes. I could touch the data. I held my breath and for that moment I
was there in far more a real experience than any I had previously had of
the war. The data from an event 70 years ago had touched me when I
touched it. I had travelled through time.

So can we do this to space data? Can we build connections between people
here on earth that reach across the vastness of space – to far-off
stars  – and across the vastness of time – to the very origins of the
universe itself? We hope we can! Which is why when Ali Llewellyn from
Open NASA got in touch a year ago we literally jumped for the chance to
work with her and her team in making space data real here on earth.

We’ve been hacking together examples as demonstrators, or starting
points, of new ways to connect people to space data. To give an example,
if you start to put people’s emotions first then loneliness rather than
measured distance is a great way to connect people to space. Rather than
think of Mars Rover or Voyager as machines sending data over distance
you start to think that they are out there all alone; on cold dark
planets or at the far reaches of space. Forever alone.   It is this
starting point that can start to make data more human. To make data a
thing we want to love… Then we start to connect people to their
loneliness… what would this mean? What could we design?

Our friend the jeweler [Jayne Wallace][] is on our panel and her take on
this is about the way data we receive now has been generated in the
past, possibly billions of years ago – right back to origins of the
universe itself.

“*Our lives have a pace to them and time is both something we crave more
of yet know has an ultimately finite quality for us. Our interactions
with the digital are quickening our pace of life and altering not only
the texture of days and years but also how we value, measure and
perceive the passing of time. But there are things that are bigger than
us, things older than we can imagine, things that give our atomized view
of life and the time we have a very different perspective and we simply
have to look up to start to engage them. We want to explore what it
would mean to use digital technologies and space data to subvert our
relationship with time and bring fresh potential to the digital objects
we live with and through. Through design we can use space data to create
ways to experience now things that occurred before humankind existed, we
can read by the light of a lamp connected to the live feed from a
telescope and know that when it flickers a new planet has been
discovered and we can connect to the orbits and rhythms of planets
through objects that gently respond to these different cycles and be
reminded that we are part of something much greater, much faster, much
slower and much more fascinating than our atomized lives sometimes allow
us to consider.*”

We’re also sharing our panel with someone who has more than a little
knowledge and authority on the science behind all of this – [David
McGloin ][](many of you will know as @dundeePhysics). His team of
undergraduate,  high school teachers and pupils have been exploring ways
to connect to the dark side of the moon for use in the education of ways
of conducting optical measurements of space objects.

*“We know that space is one of things that most inspires high school
students to study subjects such as physics at University, but it’s
clearly a challenge to get hands in practical work while still at
school. Our  project is an example of how we can use space data to try
and make a more physical and immediate connection to the subject.*”

Heading up our panel is Open NASA’s very own [Ali Llewellyn][]. I asked
her what excites her about making space data Physical.

“*From the time I was a child, I wanted to touch the stars. I wanted to
walk on other planets with my own feet and fly a spaceship with my own
hands. While I am not an astronaut, and there isn’t yet a human presence
on Mars – making space data physical enables me to get closer than most
humans can yet get to those opportunities. My work at NASA in [open
innovation][] and [mass collaboration][] is dedicated to exactly this:
enabling everyone on planet Earth to contribute directly and
substantially to the exploration mission.”*

I then asked her what she thought were the possibilities that this
approach presents?

*“This approach inspires everyone with the wonder of exploration by
making the data engaging and allowing it to inform a new context. (Who
doesn’t want to drive Curiosity or touch the sun?) This approach
democratizes exploration for all citizens – making what we are learning
in space accessible to everyone on planet Earth.  This approach
encourages new approaches and opportunities to the challenges we face in
improving life on our planet and taking our species off-planet. This
approach extends the usefulness of space data. While the data often had
one initial research purpose, we are “recycling” it for other
applications and uses, especially in new contexts”*

And why getting our hands ‘in’ data is an amazing thing.

“*In the time it took you to read this sentence, NASA gathered
approximately 1.73 gigabytes of data from our nearly 100 currently
active missions! We do this every hour, every day, every year – and the
collection rate is growing exponentially. Handling, storing, and
managing this data is a massive challenge. Our data is one of our most
valuable assets, and its strategic importance in our research and
science is huge. We are committed to making our data as accessible as
possible, both for the benefit of our work and for the betterment of
humankind through the innovation and creativity of the over seven
billion other people on this planet who don’t work at NASA. What would
become possible if everyone could not just access but remix and reuse
the images, maps, metrics and lessons learned from this amazing trove of
observation?*”

[![holding the sun][]][]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

If you are attending SxSWi, please join us for [Get Physical: Making
Space Data Real On Earth][1] at 11am Monday March 12^th^ in Omni
Downtown, Lone Star with Ali Llewellyn (Open NASA), David McGloin
(University of Dundee), Jayne Wallace (University of Northumbria) and
myself (Jon Rogers)

Thank you to: New Media Scotland, Open NASA, RCUK, University of
Dundee,  and Northumbria University

  [Product Design Masters]: http://productresearch.dundee.ac.uk/
  [@ileddigital]: https://twitter.com/ileddigital
  [here]: http://productresearch.dundee.ac.uk/sxsw-2013-make-space-data-physical/
  [Get Physical: Making Space Data Real On Earth]: http://vimeo.com/61137346
  [jon rogers]: http://vimeo.com/user1789110
  [Vimeo]: http://vimeo.com
  [Jayne Wallace]: http://www.digitaljewellery.com/jaynewallace/home.html
  [David McGloin ]: http://davidmcgloin.wordpress.com/
  [Ali Llewellyn]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/author/adllewellyn/
  [open innovation]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2013/01/28/pivot/
  [mass collaboration]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [holding the sun]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/sun.png
    "holding the sun"
  [![holding the sun][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/sun.png
  [1]: http://schedule.sxsw.com/2013/events/event_IAP5183
