Title: Tweetup With Space Station Astronaut Ron Garan
Date: 2012-01-18 17:23
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Slug: tweetup-with-space-station-astronaut-ron-garan

As part of Social Media Week, NASA will hold a [Tweetup with Astronaut
Ron Garan][] at 1:30 p.m. EST on Tuesday, Feb. 14. The event will take
place in the James E. Webb Memorial Auditorium at NASA Headquarters, 300
E St. SW, Washington. This NASA Tweetup is an opportunity to meet and
speak with Garan, the people behind @NASA account and other
space-exploration-minded participants. Space is limited and registration
is required. Registration opens at 12 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 20 and closes
at 12 p.m. on Tuesday, Jan. 24. NASA will accommodate a total of 150
tweeps and their guests randomly selected from those who sign up on the
Web. NASA also will place some registrants on a waiting list. The event
will also be streamed on NASA TV.

Garan spent 164 days in space during the Expedition 27 and Expedition 28
missions to the International Space Station. He and his crewmates
launched April 4, 2011, and returned to Earth on Sept. 15, 2011. While
aboard the station, the crew continued work on a variety of microgravity
experiments and received provisions from two shuttle missions, including
the last space shuttle visit to the station. Garan participated in the
last space-shuttle-based spacewalk during the STS-135 mission.

During his time in space, Garan shared his experiences and images he
took of Earth from the space station via his Twitter account,
@Astro\_Ron, and blog.

[Registration][] for the event is open to @NASA followers and their
guests from 12 p.m. on Friday, Jan. 20, until 12 p.m. on Tuesday, Jan.
24. NASA will select 150 total participants from those who register
online via a lottery.

  [Tweetup with Astronaut Ron Garan]: http://www.nasa.gov/home/hqnews/2012/jan/HQ_12-022_Garan_Tweetup.html
  [Registration]: http://www.nasa.gov/connect/tweetup/tweetup_garan_021412.html
