Title: Unity Node: Ready to Launch
Date: 2012-01-27 10:43
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: collaboration, fragile oasis, Open Source, Social Innovation, Unity Node
Slug: unity-node-ready-to-launch

[Astronaut Ron Garan][] first shared about the orbital perspective with
TEDGlobal 2011, asking two vital questions: **How can we use this
orbital research facility to improve life on Earth? How can we use the
orbital perspective to inspire people to make a difference?**

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/26440850?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;color=ffffff" frameborder="0" width="400" height="225"></iframe>

[The orbital perspective: Ron Garan from the ISS][] from [TEDTalks][] on
[Vimeo][].

Ron talks about conducting a spacewalk, 30 meters above the
International Space Station, and explains that “*we can look down*from
our orbital perspective *and realize that each one of us is riding
through the Universe together on this spaceship we call Earth, that we
are all interconnected, that we are all in this together, that we are
all family.”*

![Ron Garan on EVA][]

He proceeded to share some of the lessons learned from the international
collaboration that created the ISS and enable crewmembers to live and
work there on a long-term basis. The audience could also see much of the
incredible [science research][] that is happening on the Station and
what kinds of solutions it could mean on Earth.

If we can land on the Moon, if we can build something like the space
station, **what more could we really make possible?**

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/i8WTPOYqTzU" frameborder="0" width="560" height="315"></iframe>

[Ideas continued to spread][], and [networks continued to grow][].
Powerful ideas can spur world-changing initiatives, and it was quickly
apparent that there are multiple organizations all over the world
looking to develop truly effective collaboration platforms. It is
critical to unify those efforts.

**The key challenge is demonstrating how vital and valuable
collaboration truly is**, despite the real and perceived risks.
Data-based collaborations make solutions *better* through the pooling of
resources and information. Working together multiplies
cost-effectiveness while reducing duplication of effort. It is the only
way to enable economies – and solutions – of scale. Perhaps most
importantly, collaboration encourages greater accountability and fosters
trust. We are all interconnected, and the only way we’ll solve this is
together.

This weekend, from [TEDxSalford][], Ron is announcing the launch of an
international effort to connect humanity’s change makers to the
challenges of our planet – and to each other – through a universal, opn
source platform that will help achieve our common goals. (You can watch
the presentations live [here][] on Saturday, January 28.)

**We are calling the mechanism that we will build the Unity Node.** The
first node of the International Space Station – also known as Unity -
was launched to be the central connector of all the other modules. The
name illustrates how the space program has inspired our vision for
collaboration. The orbital perspective that we have as we look back upon
our Earth from space allows us to intimately experience our
interconnectedness, while the example of international collaboration
that constructed the incredible orbiting research facility demonstrates
that by working together we can accomplish anything.

Unity Node will be a **connector**. There are two pieces to this
connection: a central data tool and outward facing apps that make that
data useful and accessible. Just as the Unity Node on the ISS connects
the modules together and contains the lines and cables that provide for
life, this Unity Node will connect the various organizations and efforts
with resource and communication lifelines, creating a platform for
changing the world.

The real Unity Node story, though, is the collaboration – not the tool
or the technology. *People* are the ones who affect change. The standard
of success will be effective collaboration that enables consistent,
sustainable world change.

The question is **what kind of world do you want**? And what can you do
– big or small - to help it become that way?

[![what kind of world][]][]

**You don’t have to be in orbit to have the orbital perspective, and you
don’t have to accept things the way they are**. [Unity Node][] is
invested in reducing that sobering contradiction that we see when we
look down at our world. Now is the time to improve life on Earth so that
it is not only visibly beautiful, but where life is beautiful for all.

Join the collaboration conversation [here][1].

  [Astronaut Ron Garan]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/bloggernauts/Astro_Ron/
  [The orbital perspective: Ron Garan from the ISS]: http://vimeo.com/26440850
  [TEDTalks]: http://vimeo.com/tedtalks
  [Vimeo]: http://vimeo.com
  [Ron Garan on EVA]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/ron-eva-300x199.jpg
    "Ron Garan on EVA"
  [science research]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/research/index.html
  [Ideas continued to spread]: http://tedxtalks.ted.com/video/TedxVienna-Ron-Garan-The-Orbita
  [networks continued to grow]: http://www.fragileoasis.org/
  [TEDxSalford]: http://www.tedxsalford.com/
  [here]: http://www.tedxsalford.com/live
  [what kind of world]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/what-kind-of-world-300x225.jpg
    "what kind of world"
  [![what kind of world][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/what-kind-of-world.jpg
  [Unity Node]: http://unitynode.org/
  [1]: https://plus.google.com/109250090343898806771/posts
