Title: Venus Transit
Date: 2012-05-17 11:58
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Astronomy, citizen science, mobile apps, Science, Venus Transit
Slug: venus-transit

*"Why the astronomical community should be so exercised over a planet's
movements; why their emotions should culminate when a shadow impinges
upon or fades from the solar substance; why the transit of the planet
should be called apparent; why Professor This should perch himself upon
a pile of volcanic rocks in the Southern Pacific and Professor That
shiver in the snows of Siberia to pry into an orbital incident happening
millions of miles from either - these or something like them, are
questions which the untutored many might wish to put to the erudite
few."* [1882 account of a Venus Transit in the San Francisco
Chronicle][]

Wonder what the big deal is about a planet's movements - and why people
will go so far to watch this phenomenon? Watch here as [NASA EDGE][]
explains:  

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/T0QpXNT5AT8" frameborder="0" width="640" height="360"></iframe>

Transits of Venus—the movement of Venus across the visible face of the
Sun—are special events that occur in pairs eight years apart and then
don’t happen again for more than a century. Prior to the current pair,
the last two Venus transits were in 1874 and 1882. After the transit in
2012, there won’t be another pair until 2117 and 2125. These rare
alignments have been important for scientific research, providing data
for a very close estimate of the astronomical unit ([in 1716, astronomer
Edmund Halley calculated the distance from the sun to the earth by
having observers across the globe time the passage of Venus across the
sun][]) and allowing us to develop effective techniques to [discover and
characterize exoplanets][]. More here on the [math][], [science][], and
[culture][1882 account of a Venus Transit in the San Francisco
Chronicle] of the Venus Transit.

**Take part in a global experiment**

Great science partnerships between professional and amateur astronomers
have also been frequently seen around Venus Transits. Astronomers
without Borders is sponsoring the [Venus Transit Project][], with an app
to [observe and record the phenomenon][] from as many locations as
possible.

NASA's [Space Weather Media Viewer][] will also give you the opportunity
to explore more of what we know about the sun and how its behavior
affects the rest of the solar system.

![2008 venus transit][]

**Where and when can you watch on June 5?** Viewing locations and times
are [here][].

**How can you get involved and contribute?** Resources and opportunities
are [here][1].

Follow [@sunearthday][] for ongoing updates or go [here][2] for more
information.

  [1882 account of a Venus Transit in the San Francisco Chronicle]: http://venustransit.nasa.gov/2012/articles/ttt_76.php
  [NASA EDGE]: http://www.nasa.gov/multimedia/podcasting/nasaedge/index.html
  [in 1716, astronomer Edmund Halley calculated the distance from the
  sun to the earth by having observers across the globe time the passage
  of Venus across the sun]: http://www.astronomy.ohio-state.edu/~pogge/Ast161/Unit4/venussun.html
  [discover and characterize exoplanets]: http://www.space.com/15713-venus-transit-sun-alien-planets.html
  [math]: http://venustransit.nasa.gov/2012/articles/ttt_75.php
  [science]: http://venustransit.nasa.gov/2012/articles/ttt_74.php
  [Venus Transit Project]: http://www.astronomerswithoutborders.org/projects/transit-of-venus.html
  [observe and record the phenomenon]: http://transitofvenus.nl/wp/getting-involved/phone-app/
  [Space Weather Media Viewer]: http://venustransit.nasa.gov/spaceweather/#
  [2008 venus transit]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/60243main_image_feature_184_jw4.jpg
    "2008 venus transit"
  [here]: http://venustransit.nasa.gov/2012/transit/viewing_locations.php
  [1]: http://venustransit.nasa.gov/2012/getinvolved/
  [@sunearthday]: https://twitter.com/#!/sunearthday
  [2]: http://venustransit.nasa.gov/transitofvenus/
