We Choose Open Government
#########################
:date: 2012-02-21 23:17
:author: nskytlan
:category: OpenGov
:tags: Open Gov, Open Source, Opne Data, Rice University, We Choose the Moon
:slug: we-choose-open-government

Every once and awhile, we all need to be reminded about why we are here
and why we do what we do. A few weeks ago, the NASA Open Government team
visited the football stadium at `Rice University`_ to take some time out
of all the things we are working on to do just that. While sitting on
the 40-yard line, near the spot where JFK gave his historic “\ *We
Choose the Moon*\ ” `speech`_, we collectively took turns re-reading
those historic words.

*We meet at a college noted for knowledge, in a city noted for progress,
in a State noted for strength, and we stand in need of all three, for we
meet in an hour of change and challenge, in a decade of hope and fear,
in an age of both knowledge and ignorance. The greater our knowledge
increases, the greater our ignorance unfolds.*

The words struck a chord with us all. The simple exercise of reading
Kennedy's speech with a group so committed to changing the world, and
knowing that there really are ways to contribute to that legacy, was
sobering.

*If this capsule history of our progress teaches us anything, it is that
man, in his quest for knowledge and progress, is determined and cannot
be deterred. The exploration of space will go ahead, whether we join in
it or not, and it is one of the great adventures of all time, and no
nation which expects to be the leader of other nations can expect to
stay behind in this race for space.*

That day served as a reminder about why we have all committed our lives
to public service, to advancing space exploration, in pursuit of making
the world a better place - for reasons much bigger then ourselves.

*We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not
because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will
serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills,
because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are
unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others,
too.*

JFK inspired the nation in 1962, which is 50 years ago this September
12th. As we prepare to celebrate the upcoming anniversary, we
intentionally reflected on what his words mean to us today and asked
ourselves some challenging questions. When JFK said “We will do these
things not because they are easy but because they are hard” what does
that mean to us? What is the modern corollary? Is it something we are
committed to?

*This is a breathtaking pace, and such a pace cannot help but create new
ills as it dispels old, new ignorance, new problems, new dangers. Surely
the opening vistas of space promise high costs and hardships, as well as
high reward.*

For me, this is what Open Government at NASA is all about. Open
Government is critical to truly fulfilling our Agency’s mission. It’s
more then just embracing the latest technology, or even diligently
working to improve the way we do business inside government. It’s at the
core of everything we do. It’s ultimately about envisioning a future
that is so different than today that you are literally laughed out of
the room when first mentioning it. For this very reason, we often talk
about what the end goal of Open Government looks like amongst friends,
*close friends*. But in a moment of full transparency, let me share one
potential future state with you. We truly envision an agency that is
“\ *open by default*.” This applies to everything we do. When we write a
new contract or award a grant, we share the data by default. When we
write new code, it's open source by default. When we institute a new
program or project, its participatory by default. When we work, it’s
collaborative by default. Of course there will always be things that an
Agency does that it cannot immediately make “\ *open*\ ”, but we believe
these things are much more the exception then the norm at NASA.

*We set sail on this new sea because there is new knowledge to be
gained, and new rights to be won, and they must be won and used for the
progress of all people.*

We know that this is very different then the Agency we work at today –
and even talking about being so open, transparency, participatory and
collaborative makes many around us very uneasy. We know that there are
seemingly insurmountable obstacles that must be overcome that require
unlimited patience and persistence. We know that a vision like this sets
us firmly in the minority and that the odds against achieving something
like this not in our favor.  We know that we will always be working too
fast for comfort inside the agency and not fast enough for those on the
outside.

This is exactly why we believe what we are doing in terms of Open
Government at NASA is potentially one of the greatest missions the
agency has ever undertaken.

*Well, space is there, and we're going to climb it, and the moon and the
planets are there, and new hopes for knowledge and peace are there. And,
therefore, as we set sail we ask God's blessing on the most hazardous
and dangerous and greatest adventure on which man has ever embarked.*

**We hope you will consider joining us.**

.. _Rice University: http://www.rice.edu/
.. _speech: http://er.jsc.nasa.gov/seh/ricetalk.htm
