Title: We're In This Together: Why Mass Collaboration is Changing Our Approach to Problem Solving in Government
Date: 2012-11-05 12:05
Author: nskytlan
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Mass Collaboration, open government, orbital perspective, Participation
Slug: were-in-this-together-why-mass-collaboration-is-changing-our-approach-to-problem-solving-in-government

*This blog post/essay is a summary of the TEDxHouston talk given on 3
November 2012.  A special thank you to Redbull for use of the image of
Felix Baumgarter jumping from the edge of space, to Sam Wilkinson for
the picture of himself, to [Sally Shintaffer][] for the use of the image
of the elevator in the wheatfield, and to Eric Alder for the use of his
image of water on a glass window.*

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/52800470" frameborder="0" width="600" height="400"></iframe>

One of the things Astronauts who have had the privilege of traveling to
space talk about when they return is what it’s like to see Earth from
space. They describe what its like to see the whole world at once, every
90 minutes, and the orbital perspective that this brings. They talk
about what it means to live in a world where we are more interconnected
and dependent on one another than ever before – how it shifts their
thinking. They talk about what Astronaut Rusty Schweikart first observed
in 1969 on Apollo 9, a world where our boundaries disappear, our
problems overlap and we realize that the solutions are not one nation’s
alone.

Although only about 500 people have ever had the chance to physically
experience this orbital perspective, thanks to technology, the rest of
us are just now starting to share these same experiences. We now live in
an age where *technology* makes it possible that a [record-setting eight
million][] of us can watch [Felix Baumgartner][] jump from the edge of
space live on the Internet! Today, we can take a photo on Mars and
stream it to your mobile device minutes later!

As people around the world become more and more technologically
literate, and start to experience this orbital perspective themselves,
YOU are not only demanding more participation in government affairs, but
YOU are expecting to participate on your terms, using common technology,
and with a purpose much bigger then just space exploration. You are not
only interested in seeing the problems with government; you actually
want the opportunity to help fix them. You are not just calling for
greater transparency in government; you are seeking greater
participation. Thankfully, technology is opening the doors so that YOU
can now collaborate with government to help shape solutions to the grand
challenges of our times, the ones that require not only government
participation, but participation by all of us.

What this means for governments worldwide is that participation is no
longer limited to showing up to vote on election day, sending a letter
to your Congressman and hoping for a response, expressing your concern
by protesting about your favorite cause, or accepting a government job
to be able to make a difference. There are now other ways to participate
directly in government.

And what this means for governments at every level – local, state and
federal – is simple. *Our job is to engage YOU*.

Admittedly, doing this has previously been very hard for government.
Although government has always been a platform for collective action (at
least in the United States), the problem is that it’s never really been
an efficient one at connecting people together and scaling their
participation in a focused and useful way. But thanks to technology,
connecting people to what we do inside government does not have to be
complex. It is not rocket science. The formula is simple.

The more we enable people like YOU who fundamentally care about
government and want to contribute to the future of our world - the
better chance we will ever have in helping our governments live up to
their true potential and actually developing solutions to the grand
challenges of our time.

Here’s the key. It’s not just about *individual participation*; it’s
about *mass collaboration*. It’s about creating platforms that allow us
to take advantage of the exponential power of what happens when a
thousand eyes look at our toughest problems and we collectively develop
a solution.

Mass Collaboration is something that is particularly possible today
because of the Internet and our place in history. It is technology that
really enables the creation and application of ideas at scales
previously unimaginable, in a focused way. There are so many good
examples of mass collaboration at work today. If masses can peer-produce
an operating system, write an encyclopedia or the Icelandic
constitution, one should carefully consider what might come next.

I have the privilege of leading a team of entrepreneurs and
technologists who are focused on considering what comes next for
government, specifically at NASA. We are experimenting with new ways to
harness the potential of mass collaboration to help accomplish the
impossible mission we have been given. Our goal is to do everything we
can to connect YOU to what we are doing, not only to develop new
technology, or even solve tough problems, but to fundamentally improve
government - to make it more open and participatory.

Recognizing that NASA didn’t really have a way to engage citizens on
such a scaled and relevant way, we set off to create one. In 2012, we
hosted the first [International Space Apps Challenge][]. It was the
largest government-led mass collaboration event to date, and a real
testament to what people can do together if given the permission,
opportunity and resources. The event demonstrated that thanks largely to
the Internet, the kind of creativity and innovation that used to take
place primarily behind closed doors within large institutions, is
increasingly taking place by people simply connected together online.
The solutions developed at the event were so impressive, and the demand
to do another event like it so strong, that we have decided to host a
second International Space Apps Challenge in April 2013! I encourage you
to check it out and get involved.

If space exploration isn’t your thing, or if you are interested in
experimenting with the concepts of mass collaboration to help solve the
grand challenges *most relevant to you*, I encourage you to check out
another event called the [National Day of Civic Hacking][]. This
national collaboration will be held the first weekend in June 2013 and
another great opportunity to connect with others just like you from all
over the nation, with the simple purpose of working together to improve
the cities we live in and the governments that serve them. Our vision is
to connect people in at least one city in all 50 states, from Honolulu
to New York, from Seattle to Houston. There are already a number of
events planned around the nation, with participation by a host of
government agencies and private sector organizations, and I encourage
you to get involved! To participate is simple, visit hackforchange.org
and help plan an event in your city or join one that is already in the
works. This is an opportunity for YOU to see the world without borders,
to connect with others, to contribute something that matters and to make
a difference.

Just imagine what we could do together if we all shared an orbital
perspective! We could improve our cities, we could reshape our economy,
we could develop new game changing technology, we could improve
outdated, outmoded, inefficient government - *at all levels*. After all,
once you see Earth from space, you realize we are all in this together.

I believe governments need to continue to be bold, to take risks, to do
what intimidates most others, like when we went to the moon or when we
landed a rover on Mars. We need to do the things that not only inspire
our nation, but our world. But I also believe that we can’t do this
alone. Solving the grand challenges of our time - the one’s that you
will tell your grandkids about - will require all of us. NASA’s true
potential - any organization’s true potential - will never be unlocked
if you only tap the intelligence of those on your payroll. Limiting
participation to those inside your organization just doesn’t make sense
in the information age. We must enlist anyone willing to contribute the
time, talents and resources, to serve alongside us in order to tackling
the impossible challenges, both locally and globally.

We truly live in a world today where the possibilities are limited only
by our imagination and our will to act and there is no better time than
now to get started.

*Please join us!*

  [Sally Shintaffer]: mixedgreensblog.com
  [record-setting eight million]: http://www.guardian.co.uk/media/2012/oct/15/felix-baumgartner-skydive-youtube
  [Felix Baumgartner]: http://www.redbullstratos.com/about-felix/felix-baumgartner-pilot-biography/
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [National Day of Civic Hacking]: http://hackforchange.org
