Title: We're Back.
Date: 2012-11-14 11:35
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: International Space Apps Challenge, Mass Collaboration, open hardware, Open Source
Slug: were-back

The [International Space Apps Challenge][] was an international
hackathon-style event that took place over a 48 hour period in cities on
all seven continents on the weekend of 21 - 22 April 2012. NASA led the
international collaboration with 8 other government agencies and 90
additional organizations. The event took place in 25 cities, dispersed
over 17 countries on all seven continents as well as online. The
challenge brought together 2,083 registered participants (ages 16-70)
together to address 71 challenges that were grouped into four broad
categories including open source software, open hardware, citizen
science platforms, and data visualization. More than 100 unique
solutions were developed in less than 48 hours during the event - many
that had direct tangible benefits to existing programs at NASA. All
solutions were developed in a completely open source environment, and
each have their own unique potential to go even further to address world
and space technology challenges.

The International Space Apps Challenge was the largest government-led
hackathon to date. It demonstrated that a non-monetized collaboration
could have significant value for government agencies and serves as a
model for how government can accelerate technology development.
Spaceflight data and the needs of the exploration mission proved to be
the ideal environment to foster this type of innovation. (You can learn
more about what the community accomplished [here][].)

We have good news: **WE’RE BACK.**

The Space Apps Challenge brings citizens from around the world together
- in virtual and physical spaces - to create software and hardware
technologies that solve challenges in space exploration and on
Earth. Preparations for the second event, planned for **April 2013**,
have just begun. The effort is currently led by NASA’s Open Innovation
Program team, but we are intentionally focused on expanding the
leadership team and the international reach of the event. The vision to
engage the skills and perspectives of citizen scientists, makers,
developers, technologists, educators and entrepreneurs in the
exploration mission is one that is vital for all - and benefits all.

We need your experience and perspective to help make it awesome.

Interested in applying to host a local event? [Contact us here.][]  
Interested in getting your agency or organization involved?  [Contact
us here.][1]  
Interested in participating as a citizen? [Sign up here to stay
informed.][1]

Have a story to tell about the last Space Apps or ideas about what you’d
like to work on this time? **Tell us in the comments.**

<span style="color: #993300;">**ADDITIONAL NOTE:**</span> Space Apps is
currently nominated as Federal IT Program of the Year for the [FedScoop
50 Awards][]. Vote [here][2] for Space Apps and the impact of mass
collaboration in government!

 

  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/
  [here]: http://2012.spaceappschallenge.org/debrief/#/hello
  [Contact us here.]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/interest?interest_hosting=Hosting%20an%20Event
  [1]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/interest
  [FedScoop 50 Awards]: http://fedscoop.com/events/fedscoop50/
  [2]: http://fedscoop.com/events/fedscoop50/vote/#fedit
