What is a Civic Hacker?
#######################
:date: 2013-05-08 12:00
:author: nskytlan
:category: OpenGov
:slug: what-is-a-civic-hacker

.. raw:: html

   <div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

*This is a cross-post from the `National Day of Civic Hacking`_ website.
 *

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. raw:: html

   <div>

.. raw:: html

   </div>

The \ `National Day of Civic Hacking <http://hackforchange.org/>`__ is
bringing together thousands of civic hackers on June 1st and 2nd. But
what is a civic hacker, anyway?

"Civic hackers" as we think about it for the \ `National Day of Civic
Hacking <http://hackforchange.org/>`__ are technologists, civil
servants, designers, entrepreneurs, engineers - anybody - who is willing
to collaborate with others to create, build, and invent to address
challenges relevant to our neighborhoods, our cities, our states and our
country.

Many people have negative connotations of what it means to be a
‘hacker.’  How are ‘civic hackers’ different from the negative
perception that exists about hackers? To us, a hacker is someone who
uses a minimum of resources and a maximum of brainpower and ingenuity to
create, enhance or fix something.

Last week, a National Day of Civic Hacking organizer named Charlie
shared this powerful story with us around how he explains what a civic
hacker does and the challenge of helping others see that civic hacking
is a good thing:

'It was my father that helped with this problem. He is 92, active and a
veteran of WWII. He pointed out that he first heard the term “hacker”
during the early days of WWII in the South Pacific. The U.S. Navy was
not prepared for war and was getting beaten pretty badly. He was there.
When fighter planes would return from action they would be shot up and
in many cases crashed on landing because their pilots were injured. Each
night huge teams of mechanics would converge upon the wrecked planes and
“hack” at them, removing the good parts from several and building a new
plane over night from all the salvaged pieces. He told me they were
referred to as the “hacker details.” That was because they had to use
metal “hacksaws” as they cut away the damaged panels of the planes. At
92 he seems to think that is the original root of the term because he
said it was very commonly used during the war 60 years ago.'

Charlie is putting together a \ `Maker Faire in Dawsonville,
Georgia`_ for National Day of Civic Hacking in coordination with the
Dawson County Development Authority in Dawsonville, Georgia.

Let’s not let the conversation stop here.  It is just getting started.
 Now, tell us how you will define civic hacking for yourself and your
community?

.. raw:: html

   </div>

.. _National Day of Civic Hacking: http://hackforchange.org/blog/what-civic-hacker
.. _Maker Faire in Dawsonville, Georgia: http://hackforchange.org/dawsonville-maker-day
