Title: What's up with the weather? 
Date: 2011-08-25 13:05
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: atmosphere, blogs, climate, earthquakes, frozen places, hurricanes, life, Open Data, visualizations, water
Slug: whats-up-with-the-weather-nasa-climate-data

Everyone seems to be asking this question lately; earthquakes in
Virginia, hurricanes headed to New York, a month of 100+ degree days
across Texas. What's going on with the world's weather? Do you want to
know more than what you get from the evening news weather report?

We have a whole page of [hurricane resources][] to track developing
storms, give status on different research projects, and offer extensive
archives on hurricane data.

Does NASA study earthquakes too? Absolutely - check out [current NASA
seismological research][] at JPL.

[Climate Reel][] is a collection of NASA's best videos and
visualizations of climate change. Want a picture of what the science is
telling you? This is the site!

[My Big Fat Planet][] is a global climate change blog hosted by NASA's
Eyes on the Earth. JPL's Dr. Amber Jenkins posts updates on new
developments in earth science and climatology.

[What on Earth][] is another great blog that shares major findings from
NASA's Earth Science team. One of their coolest features is *What on
Earth is that?* where readers can guess the source of interesting
photos, videos, and audio clips from NASA's exploration of our planet
(be it from space, the field, or the lab.) Check out their [recent post
on Hurricane Irene][] and what NASA knows about the storm.

Stay tuned for the upcoming launch of data.nasa.gov, where we will
highlight NASA's extensive data archives - particularly in climate and
earth observation.

  [hurricane resources]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/hurricanes/main/index.html
  [current NASA seismological research]: http://solidearth.jpl.nasa.gov/PAGES/quake04.html
  [Climate Reel]: http://climate.nasa.gov/ClimateReel/index.cfm
  [My Big Fat Planet]: http://climate.nasa.gov/blogs/index.cfm?FuseAction=ListBlogs
  [What on Earth]: http://blogs.nasa.gov/cm/newui/blog/viewpostlist.jsp?blogname=whatonearth
  [recent post on Hurricane Irene]: http://blogs.nasa.gov/cm/blog/whatonearth/posts/post_1314203357893.html
