Title: What inspires me about #SpaceApps.. and we're only halfway through. 
Date: 2013-04-20 06:41
Author: Ali Llewellyn
email: adllewellyn@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Slug: what-inspires-me-about-spaceapps-and-were-only-halfway-through

The [Space Apps Challenge rap][]. If you're curious... you qualify.

The fact that there is a serious discussion happening right now in this
room about quantum cryptography and how we can transmit secret messages
by laser on and off the Earth.

Space Apps Tokyo's annual [Space Shuttle sushi][].

The note sent by a Canadian fifth grader who wanted to help on the Lego
Rover project. *"I am in grade 5, I would like to join your group as I
am very good at lego, Ican brainstorm quickly and nicely, and I am aa
good visualiser."Â *

A team here in [Singapore][] who considered all the offered
challenges... but then turned around and said, what if we didn't want to
just do any of those things, and we wanted to think about how all this
data relates and how real people see it? Then they started to draw out
data overlaps on the white boards, really thoughtful about why this
stuff *matters*.

This [intro video][] by the leads of [Space Apps Toulouse][]. (and their
excitement)

Will.i.am's song [Reach for the Stars][] and the fact that there's a
[challenge][] about it.

Talking to astronauts. ([coming soon!][])

Truly global collaboration. Where else are there projects on all 7
continents, from San Francisco to Cotonou, Benin, from Port-au-Prince,
Haiti to London, from Kathmandu, Nepal to Maui! I am so inspired by this
vision that is engaging major urban tech centers as well as smaller
communities without the same access or privileges... drawing people from
every corner of the Earth in to be a part of humanity's future on Earth
and in space.

Projects like [mWater][] that epitomize the possibilities of space apps
to [impact life on Earth][].

[Space Apps Toronto's youth event][] and every site that is
intentionally engaging students. Way to inspire change!

The team that is [3D printing Gale Crater][], the teams that are all
designing [Deployable Greenhouses][], and the participants who [can't
sleep at night because they are dreaming about space ideas][].

Volunteers who spend the weekend [following the threads and telling the
stories.][]

The amazing [open.NASA][] team who has worked so hard on this project
for no reason other than they believe in mass collaboration and what we
can do when we work together... and that data transparency,
participatory exploration and real collaboration really is vital to
NASA's exploration mission.

All the people who haven't even asked but already start sentences "when
we do it next year..."

We already have [279 projects][] in progress... and we're only halfway
through.

  [Space Apps Challenge rap]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=jmHgN9VE9OY
  [Space Shuttle sushi]: http://www.flickr.com/photos/akikoyana/8664275553/in/pool-2203925@N21/
  [Singapore]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/singapore/
  [intro video]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dIGBukIr0hc&feature=youtu.be
  [Space Apps Toulouse]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/location/toulouse/
  [Reach for the Stars]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reach_for_the_Stars_(will.i.am_song)
  [challenge]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/reach-stars/
  [coming soon!]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2013/04/18/spaceapps-hangouts/
  [mWater]: http://mwater.co/
  [impact life on Earth]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/predicting-water-contamination/
  [Space Apps Toronto's youth event]: http://spaceappstoronto.com/youth.html
  [3D printing Gale Crater]: https://twitter.com/ingenology/status/325430785018560512/photo/1
  [Deployable Greenhouses]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/deployable-greenhouse/#hackpad
  [can't sleep at night because they are dreaming about space ideas]: https://twitter.com/JohnnyDiggz/status/325428924668588032
  [following the threads and telling the stories.]: http://storify.com/heatherleson/space-app-snapshots
  [open.NASA]: http://open.nasa.gov/
  [279 projects]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/projects/
