Title: Why OpenGov? Why Now?
Date: 2011-07-26 09:00
Author: Ali Llewellyn
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Inspiration, Opengov, Participation
Slug: why-opengov-why-now

There is a new compact on the horizon: information produced by and on
behalf of citizens is the lifeblood of the economy and the nation;
government has a responsibility to treat that information as a national
asset. Citizens are connected like never before and have the skill sets
and passion to solve problems affecting them locally as well as
nationally. Government information and services can be provided to
citizens where and when they need them. Citizens are empowered to spark
the innovation that will result in an improved approach to governance.
In this model, government is a convener and an enabler rather than the
first mover of civic action.

Tim O’Reilly in <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Government as
a Platform</span>

**Why OpenGov?**

As a new transplant into NASA’s Open Government Initiative, I’m often
asked why I joined the team and what exactly it is that we do. Once that
conversation starts, it usually evolves around to the state of NASA. My
well-meaning friends begin to wonder why we are investing in something
like Open Government when it might seem like we are divesting from
actual space exploration. The conversation generally goes one of two
ways – either the *Shouldn’t NASA be focused on other things right
now?*route (the fallacy that choosing OpenGov means not choosing
exploration) or the *We can’t be transparent about what we do!*route
(the misconception that OpenGov means limitless data and process
transparency.)

I smile and reassure them that I’m not here to steal their data or
expose anything or give them extra work to do. I’m here to help them
find solutions that will allow government to work better in our current
technological, economic, and social climate.

You see, here’s the thing: the goal of OpenGov is not just data
transparency or technology use. “Open government is an innovative
strategy for changing how government works,” Beth Noveck, the original
director of the White House Open Government Initiative, explains. “By
using network technology to connect the public to government and to one
another informed by open data, an open government asks for help with
solving problems. The end result is more effective institutions and more
robust democracy.”

From the beginning, democracy was supposed to be participatory. Thomas
Jefferson noted in a letter how he envisioned a government where “every
man…feels that he is a participator in the government of affairs, not
merely at an election one day in the year, but every day.”

Every day. Every mission. Every American.

**Why now?**

Now is the vital time for us to expand the practice of open government
across NASA, because now is the vital time to change the way we work.

When NASA puts hundreds of new datasets online about climate, and then
creates tools to communicate and apply that data, it is collaborating
with the public to solve real-world problems together. (Check out some
of NASA’s open data: <http://www.nasa.gov/open/data.html> and one way we
are putting that data to good use:
<http://www.nasa.gov/open/rhok_2010.html>)

When NASA considers “open source first,” it can often save time and
money from reinventing the wheel, and helps insure the best, most
current, and most compatible software use. (Check out updates from our
recent Open Source Summit: <http://www.nasa.gov/open/source/>)

When NASA continues to expand its practice of open innovation, it can
access the ideas of citizen scientists and inventors, sharing resources
and lessons learned for the good of the agency – and the country. (Check
out NASA’s Innovation Pavilion:
<https://www.innocentive.com/pavilion/NASA>)

When NASA creates more coworking/collaboration spaces instead of
sustaining more unique infrastructure, we not only save money and share
resources but cross-pollinate, share ideas, and make space for new
partnerships. (Check out the sp.ace, one of just a few coworking spaces
across the agency: <http://open.nasa.gov/space>)

When NASA doesn’t just do education outreach but invites public
participation in the mission in concrete and meaningful ways, we create
a public who is personally invested in space exploration and is ready to
advocate for its value. At the same time, we increase the breadth and
depth of STEM education vital for our country’s success. (Check out some
of the recent efforts in Participatory Exploration:
<http://www.nasa.gov/open/plan/peo.html>)

The core principle of OpenGov is **collaboration informed by data**. We
are facing some pretty big questions as we move forward into the next
phase of space exploration. What is more innately “NASA” than putting
the best minds – wherever they are to be found – around the data to come
up with the best solution? OpenGov means that NASA belongs to all of us
– and we acknowledge that mission success will take all of us.
Committing to the principles of OpenGov (transparency, participation,
and collaboration) will improve our performance, better inform our
decision-making, and encourage entrepreneurship in our work.

I have friends and colleagues doing incredible work developing next
generation space vehicles and system, sustaining the work on the
International Space Station, and doing life and earth science research
that advances technology almost daily. I know those who are ready to
write seriously inspired space policy, who are building bridges with
commercial crew and cargo companies, and who are training for
exploration that most of us can’t yet imagine. I believe that OpenGov is
going to give them the kind of NASA where they can accomplish these
important tasks.

 
