Title: Women@NASA:  Women, Innovation, and Aerospace
Date: 2012-03-08 19:03
Author: agllewel
Category: OpenGov
Tags: Liquid Galaxy, OCIO, STEM, women
Slug: womennasa-women-innovation-and-aerospace-2

In celebration of Women's History Month, NASA held a ["Women,
Innovation, and Aerospace"][] event today at George Washington
University. The public event featured panel discussions with women in
senior government positions and breakout sessions where students and
early career professionals could meet NASA scientists and
researchers. [NASA Deputy Administrator Lori Garver][] shared opening
remarks before a panel of women explored the ways that women contribute
to innovation and the policies that need to be in place to drive
innovation. Deputy Chief Information Officer Deborah Diaz attended,
sharing particular encouragement about opportunities for young women in
information technology. Breakout sessions offered opportunities for
flash mentoring, connection with student ambassadors, and stories from
professional women about their educational and career paths.

![panel\_photo][]

JSC's Stuart Engelhardt represented the Open Government Initiative with
the interactive [Liquid Galaxy][] display, offering attendees a whole
new way to experience and interact with the world and a new vision of
what is possible with data, technology, and a sense of adventure.

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/qbin9WUHrDg" frameborder="0" width="640" height="360"></iframe>

New videos from the [Women@NASA website][] were also premiered during
the day, highlighting the role women play at NASA. The site was created
in response to the [Executive Order, signed March 11, 2009][],
establishing the [White House Council on Women and Girls][]. Chaired by
the heads of every agency and major White House office across the
federal government, the Council aims to provide a coordinated federal
response to issues that have a distinct impact on women and
girls. The [Women@NASA blog][] is also featured on the site,
highlighting additional personal stories and contributions from diverse
women all across the agency.

[NASA Administrator Charles Bolden][] and the Office of Science and
Technology Policy's Assistant Director for National Security Patricia
Falcone closed out the event with a great interactive dialogue with the
audience.

At NASA, we hope that the Women@NASA site and events like today will
support a collaborative and supportive community of women at NASA, and
serve as the hub of all activity related to women’s issues at the
agency. In addition, we hope that these stories will inspire
girls *everywhere* to reach for the stars, and explore the myriad of
opportunities available to them through pursuing careers in science,
technology, engineering and mathematics.

Watch the new videos online at [women.nasa.gov][], and follow Women@NASA
on Twitter at [@WomenNASA][] or [here][] on Facebook.

  ["Women, Innovation, and Aerospace"]: http://www.nasa.gov/home/hqnews/2012/mar/HQ_M12-034_Women_History_Event.html
  [NASA Deputy Administrator Lori Garver]: http://women.nasa.gov/lori-garver/
  [panel\_photo]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/panel_photo.jpg
    "panel_photo"
  [Liquid Galaxy]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/09/26/nasas-liquid-galaxy-an-overview/
  [Women@NASA website]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/04/01/womennasa/
  [Executive Order, signed March 11, 2009]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/President-Obama-Announces-White-House-Council-on-Women-and-Girls/
  [White House Council on Women and Girls]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/administration/eop/cwg
  [Women@NASA blog]: http://blogs.nasa.gov/cm/newui/blog/viewpostlist.jsp?blogname=womenatnasa
  [NASA Administrator Charles Bolden]: http://www.nasa.gov/about/highlights/bolden_bio.html
  [women.nasa.gov]: http://women.nasa.gov/
  [@WomenNASA]: https://twitter.com/#!/womennasa
  [here]: https://www.facebook.com/WomenatNASA
