Title: Yahoo and NASA Flight Readiness Review Recap
Date: 2012-04-17 18:25
Author: kpaintin
Category: OpenGov
Tags: challenges, NASA, spaceapps, yahoo
Slug: yahoo-and-nasa-flight-readiness-review-recap

On April 10, 2012, the Yahoo Developer Network partnered with us here on
the International Space Apps Challenge planning team to host a pre-event
for the Challenge that will take place this weekend; a Flight Readiness
Review for the challenges that will be worked at the event itself. The
evening kicked off with a short overview presentation of the Challenge
and some background from experience with Random Hacks of Kindness. What
we know from RHoK is that these events can be incredibly successful, but
often there are questions and stumbling blocks that could be avoided if
the challenges were simply assessed a little more ahead of time – this
was the motivation for this pre-event with the Yahoo Developer Network.
We wanted to ask the right questions ahead of time so that when the
“mission” itself occurs we have all of the tools and information
available and ready so that the challenges can be worked in an efficient
and successful manner.

Participants included representatives from NASA, representatives that
will be supporting the event in San Francisco, people from organizations
that have an interest in the results from the challenges, people who
submitted challenges, and many skilled and talented Yahoo developers.
After our short presentations, we turned challenges over, for the first
time, to software developers who could begin brainstorming to provide
input for the challenges. All that was provided were some basic
guideline questions such as

<div style="margin-left: 30px">

-   Can this challenge be solved in a weekend and if not what pieces of
    it can be solved in a week?
-   Has this been solved before and, if so, is there another piece of
    development that needs to be done to expand upon it?
-   What datasets are needed still?

</div>

People formed teams and worked on approximately ten challenges each –
brainstorming and asking key questions. The results were exciting!
Developers were excited to see what challenges had been proposed. They
assessed underlying questions, provided information where they found
challenges that already had full or partial solutions, and assessed
challenges that should be worked together rather than as independent
challenges. They captured their thoughts on the comment fields for the
challenges or on the Etherpad links provided with some of the
challenges.

This event confirmed our belief that we have some very compelling
challenges. I was impressed by how quickly the teams were engrossed in
the challenges that were proposed. At one point, pizza was delivered to
the room full of developers who had not yet had dinner, and no one moved
– everyone kept brainstorming and discussing the challenges despite the
wafting smell of bread and cheese. This seemed rather notable given the
crowd in attendance.

I was and am incredibly encouraged by the pre-event and think that this
could be a great thing for all future apps development challenges. Just
like any other mission, we want to do as much work as we can ahead of
time to make the mission itself successful. Thanks to the Yahoo
Developer Network for all of their support and for hosting the event
that we think is going to help making the International Space Apps
Challenge an even larger success.

To everyone reading this, we encourage you to do something similar -
start discussing the challenges and asking some of those guiding
questions above. Visit the challenges at
<http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenges> and share your thoughts and
concerns now so that on the weekend of the event we can move forward
even more quickly. I’m so encouraged by the challenges that have been
submitted the conversation that those challenges inspired and the people
that they’ve brought together. I can’t wait to see what solutions will
come forward on April 21st and 22nd!
