Title: Be a Hardware Hero
Date: 2013-04-15 14:20
Author: Chris Gerty
Category: OpenGov
Slug: be-a-hardware-hero

This weekend at the International Space Apps Challenge, you can be a
hero in many ways.  But let’s focus on the hardware hero for a moment.
 They’re the ones who seem to have that exact adapter you need to charge
your phone or laptop when you’re at 2% power.  They live by the belief
that if you can’t open it, you don’t really own it. Also, and most
importantly for this weekend, they approach every problem with a keen
eye for how the digital world meets the physical one.

How can you be a hardware hero?

**Step 1:**  *Do your homework.*  No, I’m not talking about memorizing
periodic tables and melting points of steel alloys. Rather, browse the
latest hardware-related blogs, see what people are making out of their
Arduino or Raspberry Pi.  Then, after browsing through the Space Apps
Challenges, try a simple project or two this week, brainstorming ways
that a solution could fit into the real world using open hardware.  Be
the expert everyone’s looking for when it’s time to take a software
solution to the next level and make those bits and bytes interact with
molecules and atoms.

**Step 2:**  *Bring your hardware.*  The hardware hero is always
prepared when ‘bits’ need to meet up with ‘atoms’.  So bring your
breadboard and batteries.  Show up to the \#spaceapps venue with a huge
backback - maybe even a roller suitcase full of gadgets and parts ready
for tinkering.  You never know that sensor or display that you’re going
to need to being that great idea to life.

**Step 3:**  *Share your skills.*  Not only is teaching the best way to
learn, but when someone is learning how to make and use a piece of
hardware, they free themselves from how it works inside, and focus on
what it does for the user.  The most important thing you could do while
designing a hardware solution is put it in front of someone who doesn’t
know how it works. Teach them how to use it and the resulting solution
will be better, and just maybe - you will have created another hardware
hero in the process.

**  
Remember heros - with great power comes great responsibility - now go
make something awesome!!**
