Title: Being a NASA Trajectory Analyst for the Launch Vehicle on Mars Science Lab
Date: 2012-08-06 21:24
Author: Caley Burke
Category: OpenGov
Tags: engineering, I am NASA, Kennedy Space Center, LAUNCH, Launch Services Program, Mars, Mars Science Lab
Slug: being-the-nasa-trajectory-analyst-for-the-launch-vehicle-on-mars-science-lab-2

Mars Rover + Rocket + Trajectory = My Job

I work for NASA with the [Launch Services Program][] (LSP) at Kennedy
Space Center. So what does LSP do?

[![][]][]  
  
LSP interfaces between the rocket and NASA unmanned spacecraft. The
rockets, or launch vehicles, are actually owned by companies, not NASA.
So LSP has to be the rocket experts for NASA, making sure that what
happens on the launch vehicle side is best for the spacecraft. LSP
selects the rocket that is the best value for the spacecraft, manages
the schedule/ budget/ contracts, observes testing, performs analyses,
and arranges for the spacecraft to be integrated with the rocket. We
work launches here in Florida, but also California, Alaska, Virginia,
and even Kwajalein Atoll in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. Our
nickname is Earth’s Bridge to Space.

![broken egg][]

I often think of the spacecraft as an egg, and LSP is working to make
sure that egg doesn’t get damaged during launch: the shell doesn’t
crack, the yolk and the whites don’t mix, the egg doesn’t end up frozen
on one side and cooked on the other. I work as a guidance, navigation,
and controls flight analyst, who makes sure the egg is pointing where it
needs to, spinning if it needs to, and doesn’t hit the carton on the way
out. I also work as a trajectory analyst, who makes sure the egg ends up
unbroken in the right place, at the right time. Because if something
goes wrong during launch, these amazing spacecraft can’t collect the
data and images they were made for.

![][1]

Mars Science Laboratory (MSL) was actually my first mission as a
trajectory analyst. For those of you going “What! They assigned a newbie
to a flagship mission?”, let me reassure you. An experienced analyst
worked on the mission for the first four years, and I worked as his
backup for over a year. He moved to a systems engineering program and I
took over the mission at that point. However, I worked closely with my
flight design lead on the mission; the rest of the flight design group
lent me their expertise throughout the process too. My counterparts at
the [Jet Propulsion Lab][] (JPL: MSL spacecraft provider) and [United
Launch Alliance][] (ULA: Atlas V launch vehicle provider) also had lots
of experience; I was most definitely not out there on my own.

When working on the trajectories, you have to work backwards. You figure
out where on Mars and at what time you want to land. For more on
planning the spacecraft’s trajectory, see my post “Taking a Road Trip to
Mars vs. NYC: Tradeoffs and Margin.” The spacecraft lets the launch
vehicle know where and when it wants to be dropped off, along with how
fast it wants to be going in which direction. Using that information
along with the mass of the spacecraft, the configuration of the launch
vehicle, and the requirements of the spacecraft, the launch vehicle
trajectory can be planned.

[![][2]][2]

The configuration of the launch vehicle indicates things like how big
the fairing is (the shell that protects the spacecraft at the top of the
rocket while going through the atmosphere) and how many solid rocket
boosters are attached to the rocket (Atlas V can have anywhere from zero
to five). The launch vehicle has different rules it has to follow, based
on the configuration. These rules are things like how long after liftoff
the rocket has to pitch over and the maximum dynamic pressure allowed
(if the rocket goes too fast while there is still atmosphere, the
pressure could break the rocket).

![viewing the sun with protection][]

The spacecraft requirements are different for each spacecraft. Some
spacecraft have instruments that are light sensitive and, once the
fairing comes off, they can’t be pointed too close to the sun. Just
like, as humans, we can’t stare directly at the sun without risking
damaging our eyes. Some spacecraft have to be rolled if the launch takes
longer than a set amount of time; otherwise, one side of the spacecraft
will get too hot from the sun and the other side will get too cold. Some
spacecraft have to be spinning at a certain speed at separation; others
may want a little spin as possible. These are just a few rules
spacecraft may want to have during launch.

In planning the trajectory of the launch vehicle, you make sure the
trajectory obeys all the “rules” of the launch vehicle and spacecraft.
Then you try to optimize the trajectory, usually for having the most
propellant leftover. This way, in case something doesn’t perform as
expected, you have extra gas to get the rocket on the correct course.
This is called margin. And it takes lots of number crunching to get that
margin as high as possible.

![wind profile: altitude vs wind speed][]

In addition to being a trajectory analyst for MSL, I was also on console
as the NASA Winds trainee. In the last few hours prior to launch, we
send up several high altitude balloons anywhere from 11 to 19 miles up.
We look for too high velocities or wind shears; wind shears are when the
wind at different altitudes are opposing or very different speeds. These
conditions can be too extreme to control the trajectory or could even
break the vehicle, so we make sure we don’t launch during those
dangerous times. The launch vehicle provider can also use the wind
profile to optimize the trajectory for that particular time.

![bull's eye][]

As much as I love to watch rockets launch, it’s quite a different
experience to hear the countdown on the headset, see the altitude on the
screen increase, and then a minute later feel the launch move through
you. It’s very emotional, and unbelievable when you realize the
trajectory hits its target dead on. My counterpart at JPL said ["This
was among the most accurate interplanetary injections ever."][] That’s
the proudest statement of my career so far.

![][3]

  [Launch Services Program]: http://www.nasa.gov/directorates/heo/launch_services/index.html
  []: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/OfficialLSPLogo_jpg-300x300.jpg
  [![][]]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/OfficialLSPLogo_jpg.jpg
  [broken egg]: http://blogs.nasa.gov/cm/blog/NES_Teachers_Corner.blog/1014816main_EggDropped.jpg
  [1]: http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/msl/images/msl20110519_PIA14156-br.jpg
  [Jet Propulsion Lab]: http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/
  [United Launch Alliance]: http://www.ulalaunch.com/
  [2]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/launch_sequence_diagram-full-small.jpg
  [viewing the sun with protection]: http://sunearthday.nasa.gov/2012/images/thumb_viewing.jpg
  [wind profile: altitude vs wind speed]: http://atmos.pds.nasa.gov/data_and_services/atmospheres_data/Huygens/DWE.jpg
  [bull's eye]: http://kepler.nasa.gov/images/mws/bullseye1.gif
  ["This was among the most accurate interplanetary injections ever."]: http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/news/news.cfm?release=2011-371
  [3]: http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/msl/images/606779main_msl20111126b.jpg
