Title: Crowdsourcing Science at NEEMO-15
Date: 2011-10-19 23:05
Author: Chris Gerty
Category: OpenGov
Tags: asteroids, crowdsourcing, NEEMO, Opengov
Slug: crowdsourcing-science-at-neemo-15

**Got plans for the next decade?**

NASA does.  The agency would like to send a crew to visit an asteroid,
and we're not going alone.  In addition to being open to partnerships
that will leverage the skills of space agencies and corporations across
the planet, NASA is looking at new ways to collectively leverage
expertise of individuals: the science buff, the student, the
oceanographer, the rocket scientist, and YOU - all working together to
explore our universe!

What techniques can we use to do this?  Today we're only scratching the
surface of "connective" technologies will be available in the 2020's.
 Only 15 years ago, the internet was [limited][] to corporations,
universities and dial-up connections for an elite few.  Now look at your
smartphone, and your television, then the car in the driveway.  Quite a
shift so far.  But what about another 15 years....

NASA is looking at technologies that will let the power of our
interconnectedness drive discovery.  Already we have seen how
[crowd-sourcing][] open space data can discover new [galaxies][],
[planets][], and even [make a detailed map of the Moon][].  But what if
the power of the crowd could tell an astronaut where to look for
precious metals on an asteroid, or where to find a hidden aquifer on
Mars?  *Hold that thought for a moment....*

**On Thursday, October 20th, after waiting out a tropical depression
which brought serious high winds and rain to the Florida Keys, the 15th
NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NEEMO) crew is ready to
splashdown.**

The plan for [NEEMO-15][] is to send six astronauts, researchers and
habitat technicians to an underwater habitat to live and work for ten
days, just as they would at an asteroid.  But instead of in deep space,
the mission will take place 43 feet underwater at Aquarius, an asset of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ([NOAA][]), three
miles off the coast of Key Largo.  The goal of the NEEMO-15 mission is
to begin to understand how NASA may one day explore and operate on
asteroids, using techniques that are orders of magnitude more capable
and efficient than methods we use today. To achieve this goal, the NEEMO
mission team is performing a simulated asteroid exploration mission in
the weightless underwater environment using a combination of divers
simulating EVA astronauts to test the efficiency of different operations
and to collect scientific data. The knowledge generated from this
simulation will help inform cost-effective designs of future space
exploration assets.  Simply put, practicing spaceflight early and often
now, can save huge amounts of money and risk later.

**It's all about the science!**

NEEMO-15 will leverage the field of marine science to test out new
operational methods with future applicability to space
exploration.  Marine biology science data will be collected from the
coral reefs near Aquarius – a process that's comparable to collecting
data at an asteroid. NASA science teams will learn from the sampling
techniques and will use this information to develop future concepts
during an asteroid mission.  But the more data that NASA collects, the
more time you need to have specialists working on it, right?  Well,
maybe not.  And that's why we need your help!

**Using the power of many to explore...**

Analyzing the vast amount of data that NASA brings back from its
missions is an enormous task.  In order to improve collaboration
internally, as well as engage citizens in NASA's mission, the Open
Government team is experimenting with different ways to process mission
data quickly.  The NASA OpenGov team has enlisted the help of
established NASA partners [Zooniverse][] and [Vizzuality][], who have
pioneered the analysis of large datasets through crowdsourcing, using
the power of elegant interfaces, to engage citizen scientists in the
NEEMO mission.  Using a new platform which takes a square kilometer of
ocean-bottom imagery and parses it out into an easily navigable,
compelling user interface, we humbly ask you to help find scientifically
relevant items, in order to allow us to outline them for a broad
representation of the reef.  Then, traverse planning scientists can then
use this aggegated data to target, or confirm the interest items for
further study.

We can't do this kind of science on our own.  We need your help
today and again when we send humans beyond the surly bonds of Earth.

The spashdown of the crew on Thursday will also mark the official launch
of our beta site at [neemo.zooniverse.org][], part of the new
[Zooniverse Labs][] arena.  Please keep in mind that we are still in
beta for the site, and the site may be down periodically.  If you find
this to be the case, check out the [NEEMO mission page][] for a while
and come back soon!

As always, please tell us your thoughts in the comments, and good
hunting!

  [limited]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:WIntHosts1981-July2011.jpg
  [crowd-sourcing]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowdsourcing
    "Crowdsourcing on Wikipedia"
  [galaxies]: http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2011/22apr_zooniverse/
  [planets]: http://www.fastcompany.com/1782062/citizen-planet-hunters-find-two-planets
  [make a detailed map of the Moon]: http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2010-05/24/crowdsourcing-a-map-of-the-moon
  [NEEMO-15]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/NEEMO/
  [NOAA]: http://www.noaa.gov
  [Zooniverse]: https://www.zooniverse.org/
  [Vizzuality]: http://vizzuality.com/
  [neemo.zooniverse.org]: http://neemo.zooniverse.org
    "NEEMO-Zooniverse Project"
  [Zooniverse Labs]: https://www.zooniverse.org/lab
  [NEEMO mission page]: http://www.nasa.gov/neemo
