Title: Discovering my own sp.ace 
Date: 2013-05-17 16:45
Author: Brenda Velasquez
Category: OpenGov
Slug: discovering-my-own-sp-ace

So much has happened in only 2 semesters, 245 days including weekends.
Through this time I’ve been documenting and getting ready for this
moment, to tell you my story. I’ll start from the beginning and share
how I got here in the first place.

** Day \#1**

A year ago, I was a senior in high school interning in the Office of
Education. I  was participating in the JSC innovation day scavenger
hunt, and had no idea of the discoveries I was going to make that day.
One of the challenges was to go into building 29 and take a picture with
all the green chairs in the [sp.ace][]. This was the first time I saw
the collaborative work space and I completely fell in love with the
whiteboards, writable tables, all the macs, the liquid galaxy, and just
the vibe I got from the room.  Here, I met these incredible people that
taught me the benefits of a transparent environment and collaboration,
and shared their goals to influence this way of thinking throughout the
 center. I suddenly felt like I had been isolated by my cubicle; I saw
this as my opportunity to leave my little box and  simply *asked how can
I work for you?* The response I got in return caught me by complete
surprise,  “*what would you like to work on, and what can we do for YOU
to make that happen?*”  That was it. I couldn't believe i was still in
Johnson Space Center. This question gave me the freedom to find my very
own projects and work on the things I was actually interested in.

**Day \#35**

My first blogpost listed every space app on both android and IOS
platforms. This list of 46 apps was then noticed and featured on
[fedscoop][] and later retweeted by NASA. The real reason this was
special to me was because this was the first time I collaborated and it
was a complete accident. I was in the sp.ace trying to make my banner
stand out by using a bootlegged photoshop that wasn't cooperating with
me. Another intern was working in the sp.ace that same day, and he
happened to have photoshop on his laptop and he also happened to be a
photoshop ninja! I almost wanted to keep that  a secret. To my surprise,
when I told my mentor about this partnership she encouraged this kind of
performance. My cubicle was something that I gladly sacrificed for this
type of collaboration.

[![Screen Shot 2012-10-03 at 10.15.16 AM][]][Screen Shot 2012-10-03 at
10.15.16 AM]

** Day \#55**

Last astronomy day, I tagged along with a few Co-ops from JSC to
volunteer at the George Observatory. We were involved with all the kid
activities, and  my job was to help make clip-on buttons of cool space
pictures that we cut out of magazines. We then gave them out for free!
Later in the day, when everyone was looking through telescopes we went
around to every line and asked people random questions about space. It
was really fun to see the  kids getting  very competitive. The event
coordinators surprised us with a challenge.  We were able to simulate
a spaceflight (I was an astronaut), through their mission control and
space station mockups. It was a great experience!

[![astronomy][]][astronomy]  [![astronomyday][]][astronomyday]

**Day \#62**

Wings over Houston was also another volunteer experience. I joined
Public Affairs and helped them manage their exhibit. Being seen as a
NASA representative to the public eye made me appreciate this experience
so much more. I really enjoyed educating the public and getting them
excited about space food! I was able to meet a lot of great people, not
to mention enjoy the awesome airshow. I cherish the volunteer time that
I’ve gained mostly  because in the past when I tried to to volunteer for
NASA I was simply ignored. I'm well aware of how RARE it is for a young
student like me to get an internship experience like this one so I made
sure to take advantage of any tour, lecture, or volunteer experience
that was presented to me.

** Day \#103**

While working in an open environment like the collaborative work spaces
at JSC, it’s easy to find people that enjoy talking about their goals.
I’ve been exposed to so many new projects, concepts, ideas, and
somewhere in between  I even found someone that had been working on
something very similar to my project. I was in the process of making the
center's buildings 3D on Google Earth, but I could not find the
dimensions that I needed in order to make the buildings proportional.
After bugging people for the dimensions for about a month my solution
walked in and sat on the table right across from me. He was working on a
app for new JSC employees that would have a map and a small description
of the buildings to help them get around. Luckily, he knew someone that
had the dimensions and was more than willing to share them with me.

** Day \#225**

As a side project, I was  planning to shoot a video for the Career
Exploration Program. Through this video we wanted to show our mentors
how our life was impacted by this program, and why it's important to
keep programs like this one alive.  At the same time, I was helping with
the preparation of the International Space Apps Challenge and found that
there was a “for the record” challenge calling for a solution that would
allow NASA interns to share their experience gained from their
educational program. How could I NOT tackle this challenge.

[vimeo 65449549 w=500 h=281]

The International Space Apps Challenge played a huge role in my
internship. I had always thought about collaboration within JSC. This
was the first time I saw the big picture, and the first time I was
exposed to this idea of *mass collaboration*. I was able to incorporate
my video into that challenge, and decided to bring my project to the
Space Apps Houston event where complete strangers were more than willing
to help us send our message. We got many new ideas for the introduction
part our video, and in result came up with many different version of
this video.

[vimeo 65454737 w=500 h=281]

The International Space Apps Challenge was my first hackathon and a huge
learning experience. Being in this environment full of people that were
dedicating their free time to enhance their community  created this
great attitude that was almost contagious! We refused to act like a
 bunch of strangers in one room, we were connected through this passion
for space that we all shared, and by the challenges we were all trying
to solve.

**Day \#245**

These people have impacted my life abundantly as advisers and as
friends. I can't thank them enough for making this amazing experience
possible. I know that I won't miss them because these are the mentors
that will advise me in the future; these are the friends I will keep
sharing my story with.![phpFJmv6nAM][]

 

  [sp.ace]: http://open.nasa.gov/space/
  [fedscoop]: http://fedscoop.com/nasa-has-46-apps-for-that/
  [Screen Shot 2012-10-03 at 10.15.16 AM]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Screen-Shot-2012-10-03-at-10.15.16-AM.png
  [astronomy]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/astronomy.jpg
  [astronomyday]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/astronomyday.jpg
  [phpFJmv6nAM]: http://open.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/phpFJmv6nAM.jpg
