Title: Farewell
Date: 2013-06-14 11:21
Author: Sean Herron
email: seanherron@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Slug: farewell

For the past three and a half years, I have called NASA home. I started
here in 2010, as an intern in the Outreach Program in the Space
Operations Mission Directorate. Beth Beck, my manager, gave me a
whirlwind tour of how things work in the headquarters of biggest space
agency in the world, then gave me a laptop and sent me forward with a
simple mandate: make something awesome.

Little did I know at the time that I was about to embark on an adventure
that would be, in all sense of the phrase, an out of this world
experience. Since coming to NASA, I've had the opportunity to work with
countless brilliantly talented people, contribute to projects that are
paving the future for exploration of the universe, and have more
life-changing experiences than I can count. Along the way, I've had a
cadre of amazing mentors and teachers who have given me more than I
could ever give back.

All of which, of course, makes saying goodbye that much harder.

Today marks my last day of working at the place that was a distant dream
just a few years ago. Although I'll miss this place terribly, I look
forward to see how many of the projects I've been fortunate enough to
work on continue to grow and prosper. Initiatives like [LAUNCH][] and
the [International Space Apps Challenge][] are stronger now than ever
before, and it seems like every day more and more people are reaching
out to us to find out how they can participate in mass collaborations
around the agency's [data][] and [open source code.][]

The work, however, is not over. I've been scrambling before my departure
to integrate one of the solutions from a Challenge I wrote for the Space
Apps Challenge ([spacehub][]) on to code.nasa.gov, and due to some
incredible last-minute help from one of its developers I'm hopeful I'll
be able to deploy it today before NASA IT yanks my server access. I'm
also in the middle of a redesign of open.nasa.gov, the [code][] of which
is now on GitHub so that its development can be continued in the open.
Beyond that, work continues to help make NASA's data more open and
accessible. The recent [Open Data Executive Order][] empowers the agency
to continue to be a leader in this area, and I know others on this blog
will continue to think of new exciting ways to involve the public in
helping shape the future of space exploration.

I am incredibly appreciative to the group of people who I've had as my
"NASA Family" over the past few years. I'm terrible with words, but I
hope they each know just how grateful I am for their incredible
leadership, teachings, and genuine interest in helping me achieve my
dreams. Leaving NASA was not an easy decision in the slightest, but I am
excited to see where the world takes me in the future. I'm sure at some
point I'll be scanning my badge once again below the giant meatball.

Until then, I leave with one of my favorite quotes. A wise snippet of
wisdom (purportedly) given by Alan Shepard, the first American in Space:

*"It's a very sobering feeling to be up in space and realize that one's
safety factor was determined by the lowest bidder on a government
contract."*

  [LAUNCH]: http://www.launch.org/
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://www.spaceappschallenge.org
  [data]: http://data.nasa.gov
  [open source code.]: http://code.nasa.gov
  [spacehub]: https://github.com/ryansb/spacehub
  [code]: https://github.com/seanherron/opennasa
  [Open Data Executive Order]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2013/05/09/executive-order-making-open-and-machine-readable-new-default-government-
