Title: I Am NASA: Justin Kugler, Strategic Relationships Manager
Date: 2012-02-16 18:45
Author: Justin Kugler
Category: OpenGov
Tags: collaboration, Education, engineering, I am NASA, Inspiration, ISS, NASA, Science
Slug: i-am-nasa-justin-kugler-strategic-relationships-manager

I have always believed that my calling in life is to do what I can to
make ours a spacefaring civilization.  That's why I studied aerospace
engineering in college, worked as a NASA intern over three summers, take
what I learned as a systems analyst for the intelligence community to
help solve problems for the space program, and now work in the ISS
National Laboratory Office.

The International Space Station is a key step for humanity in our
progression to settling the stars.  Through building the ISS, we have
learned how to construct and maintain large, inhabited structures in
space while working on interdisciplinary, international teams.  The ISS
is our only permanent outpost in space and is teaching us what we need
to know to live there safely.

We are now ready to see the ISS come into its full potential, though, as
a [unique platform][] for scientific research and technology
development.  Nowhere else can we provide a sustained microgravity
environment for long-term research or provide controlled access to the
rarified ionosphere outside.  Some researchers are investigating basic
questions about how materials behave differently without the presence of
gravity.  Others use the ISS as a testbed to try out new technologies
that we might use on future missions and see how they hold up when
exposed to space.

The Space Station isn’t just reserved for NASA research, though. 
Congress designated the US portion of the Station as a [National
Laboratory][] to make it more accessible to other government agencies,
academia, and private industry.  For the past three years, the ISS
National Lab Office has been blazing the trail with these new
partnerships.

One success story is how we worked with [NanoRacks][], LLC, to bring
their concept of small, modular experiment modules from concept to
flight in around six months.   The innovative NanoRacks business model
of making the hardware open-source and selling their integration
expertise is leading to [new opportunities][] for both science education
and private industrial research that weren’t available even a few years
ago.  NanoRacks is now enhancing the Space Station’s on-board diagnostic
capabilities by modifying a commercial microplate reader to operate in
microgravity.  This will allow researchers to analyze some samples
on-orbit and save the time and expense of waiting for a return flight.

I’ve been fortunate to watch all of this come together in my role as a
strategic relationships manager.  Every six months, I compile the
transportation and on-orbit requirements for all National Lab partners
when NASA updates the research plan for all science done on the ISS. 
I’m also the advocate in the NASA system for the National Lab partners
assigned to my portfolio, which tends to be commercial and educational
projects.

This role has been the most varied for me, without a doubt.  I’ve
briefed NASA managers on why a commercial propulsion experiment could
change the way we build and fly spacecraft.  I compiled on-orbit footage
for Pixar’s [Buzz Lightyear Mission Logs][] series.  I’ve helped
negotiate agreements between hardware developers and the ISS Program on
how to prove they can safely fly - without adding additional costs. 
I’ve written white papers for senior NASA management assessing the
benefits and risks of flying new systems on the Station.

I also run the National Lab Twitter ([@ISS\_NatLab][])
and [Facebook][] accounts.  It is vitally important to share what we’re
doing on the Space Station and I’ve found that social media allows us to
connect in special ways.  For Christmas 2010, one of our followers in
the UK sent us a video question from her daughter asking if Santa Claus
visits the ISS.  With the help of our friends in the Air Force and
NORAD, we were able to give her a window of opportunity to watch the
NORAD Tracks Santa website.  Sure enough, NORAD posted animated video of
Santa and his reindeer making a stop at the ISS!

NASA has gone even further, though, with its beloved Tweetups.  This is
where we randomly select Twitter followers to come to NASA centers and
experience our work first-hand, whether by watching a launch, seeing a
science probe being built, or talking with an astronaut.  I was
fortunate enough to be invited to the Tweetup for the last Space Shuttle
launch, STS-135, and speak to the attendees about the [awesome
work][] we’re doing on the Station.  It was an honor to share the final
flight of a program that shaped the vision of a generation with people
who love NASA and impress upon them that the Space Station is carrying
the torch forward.

The horizon is open for us, if we’re willing to chase it.  Congress and
the President have agreed that NASA should continue operating the ISS
until at least 2020.  Engineering teams across the agency are hard at
work to ensure that we can keep running the Station as long as it is
safe to do so.  The Center for the Advancement of Science in Space
([CASIS][]) is poised to take over management of the ISS National
Laboratory and bring together promising researchers, space hardware
developers, and investors in innovative ways that will expand the use of
the Station for our benefit.  Much of my focus these days is preparing
CASIS to take over research planning for the ISS National Lab.

It’s been a privilege and a pleasure to help get the ISS National Lab on
its feet.  I can’t wait to see what the future holds in store.  I
believe that we will continue to expand our presence in the Solar
System, so long as we take advantage of the special foothold in space
that we have orbiting over our heads and provide real benefit to life on
Earth through our work in space.

Don't just take my word for it, though.  Go outside on a clear night
when the Space Station is due to pass by and [see it for yourself][].
 Know that speedy point of light is the size of a football field,
contains a fully-functional research laboratory, is home to six people,
and represents everything great we can accomplish when we work together.
 If that doesn't get you excited and proud of our country and our
species, I don't know what will. =)

  [unique platform]: http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/471643main_Opportunities_for_Science_on_ISS%20v2.pdf
  [National Laboratory]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/research/nlab/index.html
  [NanoRacks]: http://nanoracks.com/
  [new opportunities]: http://www.forbes.com/sites/alexknapp/2011/11/21/nanoracks-is-making-space-science-affordable-for-everyone/
  [Buzz Lightyear Mission Logs]: http://www.nasa.gov/topics/shuttle_station/features/buzz_lightyear_dvd.html
  [@ISS\_NatLab]: http://twitter.com/ISS_NatLab
  [Facebook]: http://www.facebook.com/pages/ISS-National-Laboratory-Office/158425197505394
  [awesome work]: http://blogs.nasa.gov/cm/blog/ISS%20Science%20Blog/posts/post_1311279690981.html
  [CASIS]: http://www.iss-casis.org/
  [see it for yourself]: http://spaceflight.nasa.gov/realdata/sightings/
