Title: Life After Space Apps: Hacking for Hunger
Date: 2012-09-13 10:54
Author: Samantha Snabes
Category: OpenGov
Tags: agriculture, citizen science, climate, collaboration, Data, food security, hackathon, hacking for hunger, pineapple, space apps, USAID
Slug: life-after-space-apps-hacking-for-hunger

*Hackpad. Check.*  
*Skype Group. Check.*  
*Google Doc for participant contact information. Check.*

One by one I begin configuring the communication tools that have proven
invaluable when recruiting and retaining volunteers for the [Pineapple
Project][], a personal interest originally developed for the April 2012
[International Space Apps Challenge][].  Just five months later the
challenge is being prepped to be rerun for its 3^rd^ hackathon along
with sister project [Grower’s Nation][], conceived 5000 miles away in
London.

**Why Continue Hacking?**

Because there is life after the Space Apps Challenge.   A highly
complex, evolving life with dynamic needs demanding technologies,
skillsets and solutions much bigger than one person and one codeathon.  
Which is exciting.  And admittedly, at times incredibly frustrating, as
we struggle to navigate data dead ends, the challenges (pun intended) of
hacking across time zones and the naivety associated with attempting to
solve a problem related to a pressing social issue in 48 hours. But we
do it, again and again, and yet again.

Because the need for mass collaboration and big data to mitigate global
food security concerns is real. And because we were inspired by [Random
Hacks of Kindness][] (RHoK) and the Space Apps Challenge where we
watched in amazement as Francisco & Hanna from Chile bought a domain and
designed an outstanding user interface, supplemented by an Android App
that “Los Tainos” of Santo Domingo poured their soul into as Dan,
Venkat, and others from San Francisco managed solutions to be paired
with an SMS capability all while a group of talented individuals from
the [MetOffice UK][] supported a common database and developed the
Galactic Award winning Grower’s Nation solution.  It is the community
that keeps us developing, and the possibility of getting one step closer
to having a working prototype to address a rather impossible challenge
in a single weekend.

However, robust solutions to complex issues like food security require
expert insights and access to well-organized, accurate datasets. 
Unfortunately finding these repositories has been the biggest obstacle
we have encountered when designing apps contingent on large information
banks such as those linking crop and climate variables.   For this
reason, we are eager to participate this weekend in [Hacking for
Hunger.][]

**Hacking for Hunger**

As part of the [Open Data Initiative][] and the U.S. Government's
broader commitment to food security, transparency, and innovation,
[USAID][] has launched the [Food Security Open Data Challenge][] to
convene food security stakeholders, data technologists, and other
development enthusiasts to build innovative solutions for food security.
The Challenge builds on a number of Administration priorities with a
goal to develop new applications that use and build robust data relevant
to food security, to demonstrate within and outside of government the
potential of open data and social innovators in development, and to
ensure that government serves as a platform for fomenting
entrepreneurship.

The hackathon component of the challenge, Hacking for Hunger, will be
kicked off Sept 14^th^ by USAID Administrator Raj Shah and will provide
a platform for participants to collaborate virtually to create new or to
join existing teams to finalize solutions for an expert panel of
judges.  The best projects (and presenters) will join USAID in Des
Moines to speak at the [Iowa Hunger Summit][] on World Hunger Day,
October 16th 2012 and will be invited to participate in the week-long
[World Food Prize][] and Bourlag Dialogue events.  So far, six projects
have been proposed for the challenge. You can learn more about the
challenges, or start your own at
<http://idea.usaid.gov/opendata/challengequestion>.

**Why Participate?**

Because as we learned from the International Space Challenge & RHoK;
your code, your hacks and your solutions have the potential to
facilitate a community of users & contributors that endure well beyond
one codeathon.  And that’s pretty cool.

*For more information about Hacking for Hunger or the Food Security Data
Challenge, contact Kat Townsend at rtownsend@usaid.gov or register
[online][]. *

  [Pineapple Project]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/pineapple-project/
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: spaceappschallenge.org:
  [Grower’s Nation]: http://spaceappschallenge.org/challenge/growers-nation/
  [Random Hacks of Kindness]: rhok.org
  [MetOffice UK]: http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/
  [Hacking for Hunger.]: http://idea.usaid.gov/opendata/Hacking4Hunger
  [Open Data Initiative]: http://www.opendatainitiative.org/
  [USAID]: http://www.usaid.gov/
  [Food Security Open Data Challenge]: idea.usaid.gov:tags:food-security-open-data-challenge
  [Iowa Hunger Summit]: http://www.worldfoodprize.org/en/events/iowa_hunger_summit/
  [World Food Prize]: http://www.worldfoodprize.org/
  [online]: http://idea.usaid.gov/opendata/challengequestions
