Title: NASA's Office of the CIO on FedScoop Radio
Date: 2012-01-12 16:02
Author: Chris Gerty
Category: OpenGov
Slug: nasas-office-of-the-cio-on-fedscoop-radio

Ever wondered what it was like to guide the vision of IT in one of the
most information-rich technology agencies in the nation?  Deputy Chief
Information Officer Deborah Diaz [talked with FedScoop Radio][] about
exactly that, and the future for NASA IT looks as bright as a million
flickering network routers!

Ms. Diaz is certainly excited about the future of [code.nasa.gov][] ([as
are we!][]) [at -10:45 on the audio stream], but expands on some of the
other hot topics in NASA's Information Technology community, such as the
"Bring Your Own Device" concept [-10:30] and how consumer-driven IT
[-10:05] is driving practices in government and NASA in particular.

The [International Space Apps Challenge][] [-9:00] is fast approaching,
and [FedScoop][] reporter [David Stegon][] discussed this and other
examples of trends [-8:00] that exist in the government space.  Among
these trends is rethinking how we collaborate [-7:00], and extreme
collaboration tools tailored to the end-user [-6:15].  These are things
that employees at NASA look to the Office of the CIO to enable.  A
timely mention of technologies available at CES last year [-5:50] gives
some hope to what may emerge this week, especially in the areas of data
storage and cloud utilization [-5:15].

Big on everyone's mind lately is the emergence of Google+ into the
social media playing field, and the two discuss [-3:37] some of the
incredible analytics coming out of [NASA's presence on G+][] and the
other top platforms of 2011.

In closing, Ms. Diaz stresses the human element:  **NASA wants you to be
involved in our future**.  The OCIO is committed to investigating ways
to get NASA's data to those with a need [-2:25], in a useful way
[-2:14], and to enable YOU to get involved in real-life solutions to
today's toughest challenges.  How?  Come explore with us [-1:45] and
find out!

  [talked with FedScoop Radio]: http://fedscoop.com/radio/open-government-mobile-and-google-with-nasa-deputy-cio-deborah-diaz/
  [code.nasa.gov]: http://code.nasa.gov
  [as are we!]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2012/01/04/the-plan-for-code/
    "The Plan for Code"
  [International Space Apps Challenge]: http://open.nasa.gov/appschallenge/
  [FedScoop]: http://fedscoopradio.com
  [David Stegon]: http://fedscoop.com/radio/tag/david-stegon/
  [NASA's presence on G+]: http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/11/14/nasa-on-google/
    "+NASA on Google+"
