Title: Open Q&A at FedScoop’s Citizen Engagement & OpenGov Summit
Date: 2011-05-10 20:14
Author: Nick Skytland
email: nicholas.g.skytland@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Slug: open-qa-on-fedscoop

What NASA programs are specifically focused on open government?

The aim of the NASA Open Government Plan is to make the principles of
OpenGov a part of NASA’s everyday culture, rather than the territory of
certain projects. The goals are to increase agency transparency and
accountability to external stakeholders, enable citizen participation in
the NASA’s mission, improve internal NASA collaboration and innovation,
and encourage partnerships capable of creating economic opportunity. We
see this as a responsibility of everyone who works at NASA. The Open
Government Initiative can help us all better establish our science and
research priorities, select missions, conduct research, develop
technology and make discoveries.

As part of the NASA Open Government plan released on April 7, 2010, NASA
announced more than 150 milestones related to integrating Open
Government into the agency’s programs and projects. We recently released
a great infographic that outlines the progress each of the 22 different
programs that were a part of the NASA Open Government Initiative. While
we recognize the long-term nature of this movement, we’ve set high
short-term goals for the agency and committed to engaging the entirety
of NASA in the initiative. Open Government is definitely a long-term
process, not a short-term product, and we look forward to continuing to
make great progress at achieving our Open Government goals over the next
year.

An upcoming Open Government event that we are very excited about is
Random Hacks of Kindness (RHoK), which takes place on June 4-5, 2011.
RHoK is a unique collaboration between Google, Microsoft, Yahoo!, NASA
and the World Bank dedicated to using technology to make the world a
better place by building a volunteer community of innovation. We are
organizing a weekend long marathon hacking event with multiple global
locations in order to bring together developers from all over the world
to hack on real-world problems. This is our 3rd RHoK event, and we are
excited to support an ever-growing global developer community who work
hand in hand with experts in disaster risk management to identify
critical global challenges, and develop software to respond to them.

How is NASA leveraging technology to be more open?

Technology really opens the door for citizen engagement at a new level.
For example, we are experimenting with a number of open innovation
platforms that allow citizens to engage in critical discussions for the
agency through, particularly through virtual participation. The NASA
Centennial Challenges and the InnoCentive Pavilion are great examples of
leveraging technology to encourage the two-way conversation and engage
citizens in solving tough challenges. Social media has also been a vital
element to communicate NASA’s story and formulate answers and ideas out
into the public space.

Our biggest challenge is to embrace the disruptive innovation that comes
with new technology in order to improve the way we do business, the way
we communicate, and the way we collaborate. When it comes to leveraging
technology, we choose to spend our limited time and resources
experimenting with new capabilities that result in disruptive innovation
for the agency, rather then focus on sustaining innovation with existing
technology. NASA’s internal cloud computing platform – Nebula – is one
of our flagship initiatives for the Open Government team and is a good
example of how we are embracing disruptive innovation in terms of
technology at NASA. Nebula is enabling a completely scalable
Infrastructure as a Service built especially for NASA’s needs. The
agency is committing to evaluating “open source first” to accelerate the
software development process, saving time and money and increasing
interoperability.

What lessons have you learned around opening NASA?

Our open government framework really strives to adapt to a changing
external environment, engage with citizens, and improve our agency
through collaborations and partnerships. The underlying motivation
behind the Open Government Initiative marks a shift in the way we do
business and we have learned so much in the first year of implementing
our Open Government Plan. We have a number of lessons learned to share,
two of which I’ll discuss today.

First, we have learned that there is a huge demand by citizens to
participate in NASA’s mission as well as a large interest by our own
scientists, engineers and other professionals to utilize new engagement
platforms to solve complex problems. There are well over 500,000 people
around the globe who are already contributing their time, money, and
resources to work in the field and hundreds of thousands, if not
millions more, who are looking for additional opportunities to
participate in challenging and meaningful projects.

Taking advantage of the many possibilities created by a networked,
digital world and tapping into this community of passionate citizen
scientists is a a major opportunity for NASA. The more our own
scientists and engineers use the citizen engagement platforms, the more
we learn how to better engage the public (and our own employees) in our
mission. Well before the OpenGov Initiative was introduced, NASA was
already engaged in prize competitions to accelerate innovation for
mission-relevant technologies, but we’ve seen an increase in interest in
unlocking the the power of community-based collaboration and open
innovation platforms over the past year to tackle hardware and software
development and scientific research.

Many have seen this as a opportunity to gather and analyze information
in new ways or unlock solutions to complex problems using new approaches
that we may have not been able to do before.

The second lesson learned is a better understanding of the relationship
between technology innovation and changes to our internal policies,
procedures and processes that govern the way we do our work. Although
their are many examples of how Open Government applies has identified
areas to improve the way we work and thereby increase technological
innovation, I’ll point to the use of Open Source Software development as
a specific example.

NASA has been utilizing and developing open source software for quite
some time and doing so has already provided numerous benefits to NASA.
However, we recognize that the full benefits of open source can only be
achieved if NASA is able to establish the processes, policies, and
culture needed to encourage and support open source development. Because
open source is an inherently transparent, participatory, and
collaborative approach that is revolutionizing the way software is
created, improved, and used, it fits well within the mandate of the NASA
Open Government Initiative. We know that the full potential of open
source software development will require identifying new ways for NASA
to expand its open source activities beyond just releasing software only
when its completed.

We held our first Open Source Summit in March 2011 as a way to bring
leaders in the open source community to discuss the challenges with the
existing open source policy framework, and propose modifications that
would make it easier for NASA to develop, release, and use open source
software. There was a lot of interest – although the event was
originally planned to be a small discussion amongst 60 industry leaders,
over 700 people participated in the event, 545 of them who participated
online.

The event brought together engineers and policy makers across NASA and
respected members of the open source community to discuss the challenges
with the existing open source policy framework, and propose
modifications that would make it easier for NASA to develop, release,
and use open source software. We used the opportunity to learn from the
leaders in the open source community. More than 47 topics were suggested
for discussion with more than 638 votes cast. The topmost challenges
were discussed and debated in further detail, producing more than 17
major issues with 66 substantive solutions.

It’s clear that our internal policies, procedures and processes do not
necessarily reflect the best practices of the open source community and
therefore do not encourage the internal development and release of open
source software. Moving forward, we hope to publicly release the
proceedings from the summit and work to update our policies, procedures
and processes at NASA – based on the feedback from this summit – to
better embrace Open Source development and accelerate technological
innovation at the agency.
