Title: Pack It In, Pack It Out: The Orbital Debris iBook
Date: 2012-10-31 14:57
Author: Haley Stephenson
Category: OpenGov
Tags: APPEL, iBook, knowledge, orbital debris
Slug: pack-it-in-pack-it-out-the-orbital-debris-ibook

*A few weeks ago, the [NASA Academy of Program/Project & Engineering
Leadership (APPEL)][] publicly released its first iBook publication on
the topic of orbital debris mitigation. Sometimes referred to as "space
junk," orbital debris is subject to national and international
requirements that emphasize a “pack it in, pack it out” framework for
space missions. These practices, which are essential for maintaining
safe access to space, are important to aerospace engineers and policy
makers around the world. The orbital debris iBook gives you – the
engineer, the Space Tweep, the biologist, the concerned citizen, the
environmentalist, the teacher, the political scientist, the law student
– the chance to share the same materials NASA uses in APPEL's orbital
debris course.*

*This is the first of what we hope will be more books to come related to
courses taught by APPEL.The future of learning at NASA is no longer
confined to a classroom. This iBook speaks to the larger trend of the
democratization of knowledge, where anyone can learn anything, any time,
any place.*

*Below is an interview with the APPEL Director and NASA Chief Knowledge
Officer Dr. Ed Hoffman on the iBook and learning at NASA, which was
originally published in the October issue of APPEL’s monthly*ASK the
Academy*newsletter. While this initiative is still evolving, we hope you
take a moment to[download the iBook or PDF of the orbital debris iBook
and let us know what you think.][]*

On Friday, September 28, 2012, the [NASA Academy of Program/Project &
Engineering Leadership (APPEL)][] publicly released its [first iBook
publication][] of NASA training materials on the topic of orbital debris
management and risk mitigation. This new electronic book platform,
introduced in the spring of 2012, enables the seamless integration of
text with videos, 3-D models, image galleries, and interactive graphics.

APPEL’s Orbital Debris Management and Risk Mitigation (ODM) training
course provides mission-critical knowledge that helps NASA missions meet
the agency’s overarching strategic goals and the U.S. National Space
Policy goals for sustainability in space. The new iBook supplements
APPEL's existing course taught by Dr. Nicholas L. Johnson, Chief
Scientist in the Orbital Debris Program Office at Johnson Space Center.
These supplementary materials are now freely available to anyone.

*ASK the Academy* caught up with APPEL Director and NASA Chief Knowledge
Officer, Dr. Ed Hoffman, to gain additional insights about what this new
publication suggests about the future of learning at the agency.

***ASK the Academy*(ATA):**The recently released orbital debris iBook
repurposed and built upon interactive content and knowledge from APPEL’s
existing course on the subject. Why is this exciting?

**Ed Hoffman:** I’ve been in the learning, training, and education world
for thirty years and you’re always limited without realizing you’re
limited by the fact that you can only extend your knowledge as far as
whoever is in the room. So you typically have twenty, maybe thirty
people in the room, and that would be considered a great crowd. That has
since changed.

What I’m excited about in terms of the iBook is that now you can have
information, lessons, and knowledge materials that are available to
anybody in the world at any time. For someone like me, that’s just mind
boggling to be able to see that. So you can have the audience in the
room, but also engage an audience outside of the classroom.

One of the concerns that I always had in terms of the learning is that
we’ve had a lot of great people over the years, over the decades who
would present, and it always frustrated me with the fact that I couldn’t
capture what these people were delivering so that others outside of the
room or outside of the day, the time, and the year could hear it and
this opens up a whole different world of opportunity. Orbital debris is
a key issue for NASA and the space world. We had the good fortune to get
a subject expert, Nicholas [Johnson], who is phenomenal. He’s blessed
with both the knowledge and the talent, and he is also a great teacher.
So I’m thrilled with the iBook result.

**ATA:**How do you see this aligning with where APPEL and the agency are
headed with leveraging technology to facilitate learning from a
distance?

**Hoffman:**  APPEL has always been an advocate for the learning and
development of NASA’s engineering and technical workforce. As part of
that, we have to deliver knowledge, learning, and training to
practitioners to where they are, when they need it.

For me, this type of learning fits with our future in that we’re
responding to NASA’s strategic learning priorities in a way that we have
to find what are the best ways to establish the learning [content],
generate the materials, to use subject matter experts inside and outside
of NASA to figure out the best way to be successful with the missions
and the challenges we have, and to share it.

Now we have to take it so that we have a platform that can really fly
any place. The things that we need to know are not just available in a
room, but available anytime. It’s timeless. Some of the things may be
important enough so that in 100 years, if people want to click
something—if we still click on things then—they’ll be able to hear a
presentation from some of the folks that we have in terms of why
decisions were made. What were some of the strategies that were used?
What have we learned after making this sort of content available?

If you have a smart phone, tablet, or a computer, ideally you should be
able to watch aspects of a presentation that are most germane to what
someone is interested in, or you could learn a whole series of content.
Ideally, to me, that should be the future.

**ATA:**What other topics might we see covered in this sort of format in
the future?

**Hoffman:**Our goal is to link to what we call NASA strategic learning
priorities. A strategic learning priority is something that it is so
important to the NASA mission that a large number of people have to hear
it, understand it, and learn from it. We need to be on the lookout for
those learning priorities.

For something like sustainability, which is a relatively new topic,
there’s a lot we need to learn about it. That would be something that I
think we could do a lot with and that could go to a really broad
community.

APPEL’s International Project Management course addresses what you need
to know in terms of managing a complex program that’s international. In
the course, 50 percent of the students are from our international
partners. The ability to capture aspects of that, or eventually the
whole course, so that people all around the world can learn from it,
would be the type of targeted training program that I’d like to look at
for this type of format.

**ATA:**What sort of impact do you think this type of learning has on
more traditional classroom environments?

**Hoffman:** I teach courses at George Washington University and
Columbia University, and one of the things I’ve found is with distance
classes, in many ways, the students in those venues sometimes seem to do
a little bit better. And I think it’s because they don’t take for
granted the fact that they’re going to be getting together in a room.
They know that they sometimes have limited time windows that they can
ask questions or talk. They’re working in teams at a distance so they
have to be aware of when they come together, how they collaborate. When
the technology is really effective it gives an extra charge of we’re
connecting, we’re talking, we’re doing things. So I think there are some
advantages to distance learning.

Also with distance learning, you have to have a little bit of the artist
in you because you can’t rely on the person being there to entertain
you, to engage you, to tell you the stories. So you have to look at
these new courses from the standpoint of the art, the visuals, the
sequencing, the simulations, and the engagement. To me, that’s what I’m
so excited about, and that’s why I think it’s so critical because it
gives us the chance to try new types of engagement on a worldwide level.

You will still have people who say that none of this stuff can be as
good as being in a classroom. There is always going to be a need for the
person-to-person, but you can do things in a way that capture the
content in a way that is so beautiful that you want to have both.

It also provides the continuity. We’ve had training in the past where
people would come together, would establish great relationships, but
then there wasn’t connectivity. Now you can have ongoing learning
relationships that you could never have in the past.

Download and learn more about the APPEL Orbital Debris iBook
[here][download the iBook or PDF of the orbital debris iBook and let us
know what you think.] and let us know what you think in the comments.

  [NASA Academy of Program/Project & Engineering Leadership (APPEL)]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/appel/home/index.html
  [download the iBook or PDF of the orbital debris iBook and let us know
  what you think.]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/appel/knowledge/publications/appel-releases-ibook.html
  [first iBook publication]: http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/appel/knowledge/publications/appel-releases-ibook.html%20%20http://www.nasa.gov/offices/oce/appel/knowledge/publications/appel-releases-ibook.html
