Title: Science Hack Day, San Francisco
Date: 2011-11-13 01:02
Author: Nick Skytland
email: nicholas.g.skytland@gmail.com
Category: OpenGov
Tags: engineering, Open Data, Open Source, Science, Science Hack Day, software development, technology
Slug: science-hack-day-sf

NASA participates in a number of 'hackathon' type of events, most
notably, the successful [Random Hacks of Kindness][] in partnership with
[Google][], [Yahoo][], [Microsoft][], [World Bank][], and [HP][]. This
weekend, NASA is participating in the sold-out [2011 San Francisco
Science Hack Day][] and we're bringing all the action to you as it
happens.

<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/32023250?title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0" frameborder="0" width="575" height="323"></iframe>

[Science Hack Day][] is part of a larger movement of “*hacking*” as a
new collaborative approach to problem solving. "[Hack days][]" offer a
unique opportunity to collaborate on focused tasks for a short period of
time by a small groups of developers and are capable of producing
remarkable results. The original concept of a hack day was
popularized by [Yahoo! in 2005][] and soon after became a worldwide
trend. Science Hack Days started in [London in 2010][] by a developer
named [Jeremy Keith][] who wanted to apply the concept to the field of
science. Since then events had been planned in numerous cities around
the world, [bridging the gap between the science, technology and design
industries and encouraging future collaboration, community building and
general social awareness of one another.][]

So what exactly can you expect from a Science Hack Day? Well, imagine a
Venn diagram where the intersection is a mix of web developers and
science geeks. A world where scientists, developers, designers,
technologists, and visionaries, from all walks of life, come together
for an intense weekend to build, create and make things in the name of
science. That's Science Hack Day.  ... and the goal? *Take something
from idea to prototype in 48 hours.*

If you've never experienced a hack day, it's an exciting all-night
marathon experience, that amplifies your creativity and challenges you
to collaborate with others on projects that you'd normally not have a
chance to tackle.

The venue for the San Francisco event is [Bright Works][]- a school for
students in K - 12 that reimagines education by providing hands-on,
project-based experiential learning. There tagline says it all:
"*everything is interesting, we can create anything*." What's so
exciting about this particular event is that we are not only guests in
their inspirational space, but that a number of students from the Bright
Works school are actually participating.  Sitting right next to
developers from top Silicon Valley tech companies are eager students,
who are not only here to learn, but in some cases are actually the ones
teaching others how to use technology like laser cutters and 3d
printers.

*So how does it work?*  The first day kicked off with a series of
lightening talks - short presentations (less then 10 minutes each) on
subjects ranging from "*hacking cognitive science with crowdsourced
experiments*" to "*developing open source underwater rovers*". [Sean
Herron][] from the NASA OpenGov team gave a standing-room only talk
discussing "*the great universe of data*"and challenged the participants
to utilize the massive amounts of data NASA collects each day during
it's space exploration missions. [Chris Gerty][] from the OpenGov team,
who also doubles as our local video-editing genius, captured all the
action and we shared his work at the top of this post.

After a short break for lunch, the 200+ attendees self-organized around
a massively diverse set of topics and plunged head first into projects
that kept many of them up through the evening. The [Science Hack Day
wiki][] captures a short description of the 21 proposed projects, but
given the close proximity of amazingly talented hackers, it's no
surprise that a number of new projects formed based on the unique
collaborations that would have never have happened otherwise.

A few other noteable aspects of the event included the participation of
10 Scienc Hack Day Ambassadors from Brazil, Canada, Germany, Iceland,
Ireland, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, South Africa and the United States. [The
ambassadors,][] who were funded thanks to the generous support of the
[Alfred P. Sloan Foundation][], included a European astrophysist turned
scientist for development, Mathematical physist, an artificial
intelligence researcher, an author, and a number of other equally
interesting entrepreneurs. Not to be shown up, a group of impressive 5th
graders developed working prototypes of video games using the
[Unity][] platform and [Google Sketchup][] in less then 4 hours. We were
all appropriately humbled.

There is so much we can learn from events like Science Hack Day and it's
hard to capture it all in a short blog post, but we've shared some
photos from the event below and tomorrow we'll be updating this post
with a list of some of our favorite hacks. We'll also reveal a project
we worked on that mashes up NASA data in a new way!

<p>
<object width="575" height="431" classid="clsid:d27cdb6e-ae6d-11cf-96b8-444553540000" codebase="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,40,0">
<param name="flashvars" value="offsite=true&amp;lang=en-us&amp;page_show_url=%2Fphotos%2Fmbiddulph%2Fsets%2F72157628114528220%2Fshow%2F&amp;page_show_back_url=%2Fphotos%2Fmbiddulph%2Fsets%2F72157628114528220%2F&amp;set_id=72157628114528220&amp;jump_to="></param><param name="allowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="src" value="http://www.flickr.com/apps/slideshow/show.swf?v=109615"></param><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"></param>

<embed width="575" height="431" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" src="http://www.flickr.com/apps/slideshow/show.swf?v=109615" flashvars="offsite=true&amp;lang=en-us&amp;page_show_url=%2Fphotos%2Fmbiddulph%2Fsets%2F72157628114528220%2Fshow%2F&amp;page_show_back_url=%2Fphotos%2Fmbiddulph%2Fsets%2F72157628114528220%2F&amp;set_id=72157628114528220&amp;jump_to=" allowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true">
</embed>
</object>
</p>
<iframe src="http://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/10134533" width="575" height="470" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

**Day 2 Update**

Science Hack Day San Francisco 2011 was overwhelming successful.  27
projects were presented on Sunday afternoon and we think the results
speak for themselves.  We've captured a brief synopsis and short
presentation highlighting the [projects][] below and have also provided
links to more information.

<iframe src="http://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/10146791" width="575" height="470" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

**Science and Gender**

Wrote python scripts to hack gender and attributed gender to ambiguous
names. Data is on github and uses facebook, wikipedia and census data.
<http://github.com/cazdev/Science-and-Gender>

Creators: Alex Kudlick, Matt Senate, and others

**IsoDrag TypeFace**

Type faces should be very well balanced, but does that mean jsut
visually balanced? What about aerodynamically balanced? Took helevitica
type face and built a mini-wind tunnel to test the drag coefficient for
all the letters of the alphabet. Ideally, all the letters should have
the same drag coefficient. Took the letters and changed the weights so
they all balance out aerodynamically. <http://twitpic.com/7dpbrd>

Creators: David Harris (@physicsdavid) Josh and Mia from Wellington

**ISS Globe Notify**

Using a laser mounted on the inside of a translucent globe and a couple
of servos (one turning the globe and the other controlling the pitch of
the laser. Tracks the real-time approximate position of the
International Space Station over Earth. One servo provide longitude and
the other servo provides latitude. Used the MakerBot to print the main
gear. For more information
visit <http://github.com/natronics/ISS_Globe> and <http://open-notify.org/api-doc#iss-now>

Creators: Nathan Bergey nathan.bergey@gmail.com Steven Davis
smd\_1960@yahoo.com Glenn LeBrasseur @glennlebrasseur Nicolas Weidinger
@drweidinger Rachel Weidinger @rachelannyes

**Visualize the South African National Budget**

A visualzazation of the the South African National Budget to demonstrate
that the spending on science is very reasonable. How much does science
and technology really cost? Visit <http://carolune.org/ZA_Budget/>. All
the budget data used in this visualization comes from the South African
Treasury website. The data comes from the consolidated expenditure
estimates 2010/2011.

Creators: Carolina Ödman-Govender @carolune Brian Suda @briansuda

**Single Point Perspective**

Pulling recent photos from Flickr, shrinking small, putting them on a
map, to create a photo of Earth based on photos from Earth.
<http://jes5199.com/single_point_perspective.html>

Creators: Jesse Wolfe @jes5199

**Syneseizure**

Umasking reality. Reality is far too complex because of the massive
amounts of information, so we set out to hack our senses by sending
sensory input to the wrong sense with the goal of purposely confusing
our brain (and it’s associated data filtering algorithms). Essentially,
the mask takes in a visual input and outputs a signal to influence our
sense of touch. Implemented using a web cam (visual input) that goes
into an ardunio that drives sixty 60-cent mini speakers that affect your
sense of touch.

Creators: Bala Ramamurthy, Watson Watson, Lillian Fritz-Laylin, Meredith
Carpenter, Hamilton, Marissa Fessenden, Parker Imrie, Tymm Twillman,
Greg Freidland, Fen Lipkowitz, and Liam Holt

**Large Hadron Collider Data Hack**

One of the experiments from the Large Hadron Collider, the Compact Muon
Solenoid (CMS) experiment), has released a small amount of the data for
educational purposes. A partical physicist brought the data to see what
they could hack with the data. The data is hard to access and even more
difficult to understand (both from the formats and physics), so it
turned into a hack that tried to explain the data through data
visualization that will be ultimately useful for physicists at CERN and
Fermi Lab. For more information:
<http://www.mattbellis.com/index.php?title=Science_Hack_Day_2011_(San_Francsico)> and  
[http://mattbellis.com/dimuons.html (needs about 60 seconds to load)][]

Creators: Matt Bellis (@matt\_bellis) Lynn Root (@roguelynn) Aaron
Culich (@aculich) Morris Mwanga (Kenya ambassador) Tim Clem Kevin

**HomeBrewMicroscope**

A microscope cable of sub-micron resolution using plumbing parts, an
objective lens, and a digital camera. They were able to resolve objects
as wide as one wave of green light. Total cost to implement the hack was
around \$35 of parts.Screenshots, photos and videos:
<http://purefixion.com/AllTogether.jpg>

**HIV/AIDS: Meaningful indicators**

HIV/AIDS spread follows complex human network dynamics, the details of
which are very difficult to measure. The team explored a proof of
concept hack using WEKA, a data mining software in JAVA, that explores
the data sets to analyze various indicators in a meaningful way to
determine risk of being HIV positive, without asking any personal
questions. This could inform prevention and intervention policies.

**Buckets of Tears**

bucketsoftears.com is a data visualization and crowdsourcing project to
provide a web interface to bring comfort to people who are experiencing
sadness. The visualization presents tweets from all over the world that
contain the word “crying” in multiple languages. While they are being
streamed in real time, tear droplets show up on a world map to indicate
their location. The team continues to work on adding a "Comfort" button
which which visitors can interact with the sad tweeters to cheer them
up. Screenshots, photos and videos are available at
www.bucketsoftears.com. Source code and links are available at
[https://github.com/arfon/Tears][].

Creators: Arfon Smith: @arfon, Jarod Luebbert @jarodl, Julia Bossmann:
@juliabossmann, Roman Gurovich: @romangurovich, Ryan Balfanz:
@RyanBalfanz and Stuart Lynn: @stuart\_lynn

**Space Ipsum**

Have you ever needed filler text, but wished you had more exciting
options then the generic “lorem ipsum” variations? If so, you are in
luck! The team created a space themed random content generator, that
uses phrases from historic moments in spaceflight available at
htp://spaceipsum.com. More information available at:
<http://open.nasa.gov/blog/2011/11/13/space-ipsum/>

Creators: Sean Herron @seanherron, Nick Skytland @skytland, William
Eshagh @eshagh

**EpiCell**

Disease is prevalent but healthcare is not universal. Fortunately, much
of the world now has access to a cell phone. Technologies are being
developed that can turn cell phones into diagnostic devices. These
devices can be used at the point of care and the information can be
transmitted in real-time to experts and databases. If properly deployed
and used, mobile diagnostic devices could facilitate addressing the
needs of individuals in impoverished areas and tracking the emergence of
disease outbreaks. To determine where such devices should be deployed,
we collected open source geospatial data and created a map to identify
locations where healthcare was scarce, but cell phone coverage was
readily available. The code is available at [epicell.github.com][]

Creators: Aaron Steele: @eightysteele \* Andrew Hill: @andrewxhill \*
Arfon Smith: @arfon \* Julia Bossmann: @juliabossmann \* Nancy Burgess:
NancyB \* Roman Gurovich: @romangurovich \* Ryan Balfanz: @RyanBalfanz
\* Stuart Lynn: @stuart\_lynn

**OpenROV Kinect-ivity**

Working the development of an OpenROV controllers, including iPhone &
interwebs. Mounted geophysical exploration package to ROV. Successfully
disassembled Kinect case and extracted key hardware, but failed to mount
due to half-inch size difference. Future plans include further
experimentation to include a re-attempt with slightly larger ROV. More
information: <http://openrov.com/profiles/blogs/6365107:BlogPost:14103>

Creators: Eric Stackpole (@eerrp) David Lang (@davidlang) Mika McKinnon
(@mikamckinnon) Tim Clem (@timothyclem) Jay Freeman, original Jay
Freeman, evil twin (@saurik)

**DNAquiri**

Using a DNA extraction protocol, the team created a product of which
also happens to be a tasty cocktail. Fruit cells (strawberry and others)
are lysed by freeze/thaw and heat cycles to eliminate the use of
surfactants. Salt is minimized and sugar added in order to mask any
salty flavor. Bacardi 151 is layered over fruit purée to extract DNA
into the ethanol phase. A tiny umbrella completes the tropical vibe.
Screenshots, photos and videos: [http://twitpic.com/7dz2ah
http://twitpic.com/7dz23m][]

Creators: Patrik D'Haseleer, Bonnie Barrilleaux, Lily Lew,
@sulfur\_blue, Joseph, @codonAUG Michelle Peters

**Urban**

Using radio telemetry, this draft UI design turns animal tracking data
into visual patterns for display in public installation and through a
mobile device. People viewing this data can help scientists monitor
species habitat and migration. The hack URL is
<http://interactionart.org/?page_id=483>

Creators: Amber Didow, Vicki Moulder, Satoka

**Thalamoid**

Using the Thalamoid platform, the team connected an Android mobile
device to analog ultrasonic scientific sensors to demonstrate the 's
ability to serve as a data collection system. The system logs
environmental data to an SD card in addition to displaying it on the
screen for immediate feedback. The team attached ultrasonic sensors to
record real data using a mobile device and then pass the data to the
cloud. The source code and links and available at
<http://www.thalamoid.com>. For more information visit
<http://phinominal.com/phinominalblog/>

Creators: Matteo Borri, Paul Mans, Akhsar Kharebov, Geoffrey Chu

**Subjects**

A visualization to display subjects in scientific papers using the PLoS
search API. The code is available at <http://mbostock.github.com/d3/>.
The hack can be viewed at <http://10.0.1.38/~joe/plos/hack2/>

**vSculpt**

The team created a virtual sculpting tool called vSculpt is a program
which allows users to use gestures in front of a webcam to sculpt a 3d
model and then print it on a 3d printer. The source code and links are
available at <http://github.com/laughinghan/opentld>

Creators: David Allen Han Wei Sabrina Atienza Luke Rast

**OECD Threatened Species**

This project is designed to visualize some of the environmental data on
threatened species published by the OECD, an international organisation
helping governments tackle the economic, social and governance
challenges of a globalised economy. The OECD produces reports on the
state of the environment based on data from participating countries. The
aim of this project is to compile and visualize the information on
threatened (endangered, vulnerable, and critically endangered) species
by country so that it is easily accessible. The current hack only
includes the mammals data, but new pages for fish, birds, amphibians,
invertebrates, plants, and reptiles will be added soon. The project is
built with the Google Chart apis for visualizing data. Currently in use
are the geo chart and bar chart. The hack URL is
<http://www.erinjorichey.com/endangered/mammals-map.html>

Creators: Erin Richey @erinjo

**NeckBeard**

Using a 22-line python script and a USB microscope, development an
impressive application to quantify the length of beard hair through
visualization and data. The hack URL is
[http://labs.radiantmachines.com/beard ][]

Creators: Joshua Gourneau

**Hack Your Genome**

The inspiration for this project came out of frustration of what’s
available to analyize your own genome data. Many people have their own
23andMe genotype (<https://www.23andme.com/>), but there is not gene
broswer to understand the variants. The team developed a basic genome
browser to display SNP data from 23andMe, showing the rarity of each
genotype, overlaid on the gene structure. The hack URL is
<http://j.mp/genomehack>

Creators: Mitch Skinner, @surrealize Jun Axup, @junnibug Patrik
D'haeseleer, patrikd Will Reinhardt, @wreinhardt Mohammed Rahman,
@8iterations, Eri Gentry, @erigentry

**Self-Titled**

In scientific publications, credibility is judged by the number of
citations which is ultimately a poor metric. With the rise of electronic
publishing and the social web, there are exciting new opportunities to
look at a broader dimension of how a researcher influences his peers and
is in turn influenced. The team decided to adapt a technique often used
by corporations to get a feel for what people are saying about them
online to look at one dimension of academic impact which has until now
gotten little attention. Using the Open APIs provided by the open access
publisher the Public Library of Science, the team analyzed research
papers and gave them a score corresponding to how much confidence an
author of a paper expressed in his work. This allows us to tune into the
signals expressed by the researcher about his own work, which gives us a
much earlier signal of potential importance than we get by waiting for a
paper to get citations. It's a good thing in some respects that science
moves slow, but nothing’s fast enough for researchers pushing the
leading edge of research in areas like cancer research, stem cell
biology, and other critical rersearch areas. Screenshots, photos and
videos: <http://db.tt/1OZnYaaT>, [http://db.tt/tqV03M8G][]and
<http://db.tt/cOxeLUKb> The hack URL:
<http://github.com/williamgunn/SciSentimen>t

Creators: William Gunn (@mrgunn) Matt Senate (@wrought) Jacob Schiach

**Physical Computing**

Physical objects have a sensory richness of meaning that screen-based
elements do not. When we see, hear and feel real-world objects we are
enabled to train both cognitive and perceptual skills in combination.
Therefore, the team developed code that associates everyday 3-d objects
as computing tools, by associates photos of objects taken from a mobile
device with a database representing other objects.

Creators: Henrik Brink, Lisa Ballard

**Quake Canary "PEEPS"**

Using an accelerometer data from arduinos and mobile devices (iphones
and geophones), the team created an app that provides an early-warning
notification of an earthquake. The app leverages publically-contributed
seismic data and publishes it to a online map using openheatmap.com. The
data is then compared with USGS and UC Berkeley Northern California
Seismic data available to the public in real time, as well as visualizes
it on a map. Users are notificed of recent or pending earthquake using
an iphone app.

Creators: Ryan Anderson, Chris Swanson, Ariel Rokem, David McKeown, Jen
Blank, Mika McKinnon, Rachel Weidinger, thanks to Pete Worden
(openheatmap.com)

**Code Hero**

Developed a game called Code Hero that teaches people how to make games.
The software allows you to shoots javascript in 3D. Students from Bright
Works then used the platform, as well as Unity and Google Sketchup to
build a game with four levels called “Pikachu in Action”.

Creators: Students and Principal from the [New Community Learning
Center][].

  [Random Hacks of Kindness]: http://www.rhok.org
  [Google]: http://www.google.com/
  [Yahoo]: http://www.yahoo.com/
  [Microsoft]: http://www.microsoft.com/en/us/default.aspx
  [World Bank]: http://www.worldbank.org/
  [HP]: http://www.hp.com/
  [2011 San Francisco Science Hack Day]: http://sf.sciencehackday.com/
  [Science Hack Day]: http://sciencehackday.com/
  [Hack days]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hack_Day
  [Yahoo! in 2005]: http://blog.chaddickerson.com/2006/06/14/yahoo-hack-day-tomorrow-and-some-of-my-inspirations/
  [London in 2010]: http://london2010.sciencehackday.com/
  [Jeremy Keith]: http://adactio.com/
  [bridging the gap between the science, technology and design
  industries and encouraging future collaboration, community building
  and general social awareness of one another.]: http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/guest-blog/2011/08/29/hacking-science-the-intersection-of-web-geeks-and-science-geeks/
  [Bright Works]: http://sfbrightworks.org/
  [Sean Herron]: https://open.nasa.gov/blog/author/sherron/
  [Chris Gerty]: https://open.nasa.gov/blog/author/cgerty/
  [Science Hack Day wiki]: http://sciencehackday.pbworks.com/w/page/32557641/SF-hacks
  [The ambassadors,]: http://sciencehackday.com/news/
  [Alfred P. Sloan Foundation]: http://www.sloan.org/
  [Unity]: http://unity3d.com/
  [Google Sketchup]: http://sketchup.google.com/
  [projects]: http://sciencehackday.pbworks.com/w/page/47743279/sfhacks2011
  [http://mattbellis.com/dimuons.html (needs about 60 seconds to load)]:
    http://mattbellis.com/dimuons.html%20(needs%20about%2060%20seconds%20to%20load)
  [https://github.com/arfon/Tears]: http://github.com/arfon/Tears
  [epicell.github.com]: epicell.github.com
  [http://twitpic.com/7dz2ah http://twitpic.com/7dz23m]: http://twitpic.com/7dz2ah%20http://twitpic.com/7dz23m
  [http://labs.radiantmachines.com/beard ]: http://labs.radiantmachines.com/beard%20
  [http://db.tt/tqV03M8G]: http://db.tt/tqV03M8G%20
  [New Community Learning Center]: https://sites.google.com/a/neaclc.org/homepage/
