Title: SpaceLab for iOS
Date: 2011-12-01 13:37
Author: Mathew Benson
Category: OpenGov
Tags: iOS, mobile apps, Open Source, operations, space apps
Slug: spacelab-for-ios

*SpaceLab for iOS * is a commercially developed app by [Odyssey Space
Research][] to work with Apple's iOS on iPhone^®^ 4 in order to perform
experiments onboard the U.S. National Laboratory on the [International
Space Station (ISS)][]. The *SpaceLab for iOS* app was transported to
the ISS on two, space certified iPhone 4's on the historic final mission
of the Space Shuttle program, [STS-135][], on the orbiter Atlantis.  The
purpose of *SpaceLab for iOS* is to demonstrate that an inexpensive
consumer electronics device can perform tasks previously reserved for
expensive single purpose devices.  Modern smart phones contain hardware
once only found in expensive avionics.  Where an avionics box may have
had a limited production run of 100's or 1000's of devices, a smart
phone may have a similar engineer investment but a longer production run
of millions, which significantly lowers the cost for users of the
device.  **The goal of this project is to significantly lower the cost
of space flight and lower the barrier to access in space.**

The iPhone^®^ 4 was chosen because it was the first widely accessible
hand held consumer electronics device with a high resolution display,
tactile interface, high density storage, 3-axis accelerometer, and
3-axis gyro.  A series of 4 experiments were selected that, when
combined, could prove that such a device could be used to locate a space
vehicle relative to Earth.  Space flight software is often created
with expensive specialized software, so *SpaceLab for iOS* was
purposefully created using open source or free software when available. 
All the software is written with XCode, which is free from the Apple
website.  Most graphics were created with Gimp, which is a popular open
source graphics tool.  Even some of the mathematical algorithms were
designed and tested using Octave, an open source math utility, before
being converted to code.  During development, bug tracking was performed
by Trac and version control by Git, both open source utilities.  The
idea is that this is an avionics platform that many college students
already have, and they can write software for it using open source
tools.

The two smartphones are currently onboard the [ISS][International Space
Station (ISS)].  We are finalizing approval of the procedure and crew
training, and plan to have the smartphones unpacked and being used
shortly.

Four experiments are planned. The experiments contain step-by-step
procedures to allow a crew member to conduct the experiments without the
need for supplementary paper procedures.

**Limb Tracker** This navigation experiment will involve taking
photographs of the Earth and matching an arc to the horizon through
manipulation of an overlay. This performs the function roughly
equivalent to a “manual” horizon sensor. It will yield an estimate of
altitude (height above the surface) and “off axis” angle, a measurement
of the angle of the image with respect to the Earth's center.  When
returned to the ground, this data will be used to calibrate the camera
lens, which may have shifted during launch.

**Sensor Cal** This sensor calibration experiment uses a series of
photos of a reference image, combined with propagated information using
three-axis gyro and accelerometer measurements to calibrate the gyros
and the accelerometers (i.e. bias and scale coefficients). This will
improve the knowledge and accuracy of subsequent measurements.  The
calibrated optics will be used to calibrate the motion sensors by
providing a second means to determine movement.

**State Acq ***State Acquisition* - This navigation experiment uses a
series of photos of a reference image and of the Earth, combined with
information from the three-axis gyro and accelerometer, to estimate the
position of the spacecraft (latitude and longitude). The position
estimation is generated by manipulating and matching a wireframe overlay
of the Earth's coastlines to the acquired Earth image(s). Performing
multiple sequences, separated by a known amount of time, can permit
estimation of the spacecraft's orbit parameters.

**LFI ***Lifecycle Flight Instrumentation* - This experiment will
characterize the effects of radiation on the device by monitoring
certain areas of memory for Single Bit Upsets - an unintended change in
value of a memory location caused by exposure to radiation.

iPhone 4 was certified for spaceflight and was transported to the ISS on
the Space Shuttle via [NanoRacks, LLC][] of Houston, Texas. NanoRacks
provides low-cost hardware and integration services for the U.S.
National Laboratory onboard the ISS. Both iPhone 4's will remain on the
ISS for several months where the experiments will be conducted by the
crew and data acquired and stored on the devices.

The app is available for download on the [App Store][]^℠^ so that ground
based users can get a sense of experience and tasks to be performed by
crew members on the ISS. Some features are simulated to account for the
presence of gravity.

When the experiments are completed, both iPhones will be returned to
Earth. The first opportunity for return will be on a Russian Soyuz
vehicle in the spring of 2012. Flight data from the experiments are
expected to be collected, analyzed, and then shared via this app on the
App Store.

**Already have *SpaceLab for iOS*?** — Be sure to print out
our [Localization Placard][] to get started.

  [Odyssey Space Research]: http://www.odysseysr.com
  [International Space Station (ISS)]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/research/news.html
  [STS-135]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/shuttle/shuttlemissions/sts135/index.html
  [NanoRacks, LLC]: http://nanoracks.com/
  [App Store]: http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/spacelab-for-ios/id441829040?mt=8&ls=1
  [Localization Placard]: http://www.odysseysr.com/spacelab/placard.html
