Title: The Rise of Robot(ic)s
Date: 2012-07-16 21:10
Author: Katy Jeremko
Category: OpenGov
Slug: the-rise-of-robotics

In a fast-paced world, humans clash with one another on efficiency and
logic. By looking for answers to that hammering sense of frustration we
face in our daily interactions, the age of robots is on deck. Though we
haven’t completely ascribed ourselves to this new genome, we already
look to objects to use logic to work seamlessly in our everyday lives.
For the limitations of human ability, robots provide conveniences to
difficult tasks. However, I think we all wonder if this technology will
prove to be a more evolved species than we ourselves are.

For now, let’s dive into the humorous and playful side of robotics.
Developed at the  [Ishikawa Oku Laboratory][] at the University of Tokyo
in Japan, [this robot][] is capable of deciphering visual cues and make
decisions based on the input. The robot is able to make it’s own
decisions independent of human leadership, which could mean so much for
the future emotional relationship between humans and machines. By
focusing on social and psychological interactions in the real world,
Ishikawa Oku designs systems that enhance our experiences through : (1)
sensory fusion, (2) dynamic image control, (3) parallel image processing
through vision chips, and (4) meta perception. By exploring this branch
of technology, machines will become further extensions of our internal
and external lives.

In our work environments, robots carry out complicated and hazardous
routines without fail, which is an impossible feat. Surgeons have
recently found great advantages relying on the dynamism and precision of
robot [*da Vinci*][]. By placing a value on doctor dexerity and
gracefulness, robotics is a science which mimics natural, human skill.
Making up three parts of the whole, *da Vinci* works through a surgeons
console, a robotic cart, and a high-definition 3D vision system.

With so much promise, robots take to hallowed testing ground aboard the
International Space Station. NASA Astronauts work with [Robonauts][] in
outer space to complete rudimentary tasks, measuring the positives and
negatives of humanoid technology. The environment and lab aboard the ISS
is a unique and invaluable pool for experimenting with possibilities.
Not only can robots iterate usefulness among scientists on the ISS with
precision and logic, but more importantly, they can demonstrate
potential useful applications on earth.

The argument for robots can be made with statistical evidence from
examples as these, but cost of the technology continues to be a huge
issue. Through open hardware, [LEGO][] approaches the issue from a
different perspective. Placing an importance on future robot-breeders,
LEGO has begun to embed programmable elements into their inexpensive
building blocks. By teaching children unconventionally in their playful
environments, businesses have the ability to communicate valuable
lessons such as : repairable circuits and systems with modular pieces,
interchangeable parts, conceptual thinking, programming, and teamwork.
Therefore, the accessibility of knowledge for building, fusing, and
programming is in just about any toy store. [LEGO’s Mindstorm][] chip
allows children to build robots using color, touch, and sensory input.
Not only do ideas like these propagate making, but they also encourage
the notion of “modding” (or modifying) methods. NASA Engineer Dr. Chris
Rogers uses robotics to encourage the link between engineering,
education, creativity, problem solving, and control theory. Watch his
GoogleTechTalk on his experiences using open technology, [here][].

Over at [Willow Garage][], the PR2 (personal robot) is coming to effect
in our everyday lives. By looking at the actual interactions we face
with technology, the PR2 is the next iteration of a physical intelligent
object. Using a goal as a means, Willow Garage looks to the collective
partnership of aspiring designers, engineers, machinists, and theorists
for robotics research. The company’s operating system is open to public
domain to prove, use, share, and hack. In our own lives, we saw a
significant shift in the value of personal computers. Willow Garage has
a belief that we will experience the same result with our robotic
companions. Like a nerve center, the robots functions, thoughts, and
actions will be able to be manipulated. As you envision a need, you
design and alter the system which executes your instructions. This type
of thinking will not only teach users making skills, it will also
propagate conscious consumption. The landscape will provide new
environments, reaching a point where it is unremarkable to come in
contact with a robot.

Information age novelist William Gibson once eloquently stated, “the
future is already here - it’s just not evenly distributed”. However, the
dawn of the robots is on us, as we will continue to develop complex
interactions through open and accessible technology. And in this era, it
is not so much the theory that will deepen our understanding, but it is
the practice and implementation that will stir and create change. The
age of oncoming exploration will exist through the citizen innovators
and everyday collaborators, as tools become more available and problems
saturate our lives. With open as our mission, this stuff isn’t only
extremely cool, it’s also part of our future.

<iframe src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/UyLq4lfBsI0" frameborder="0" width="853" height="480"></iframe>

*Above is a little more about Willow Garage’s PR2 robotics platform.
Started by former Google employee Scott Hassan, Willow Garage believes
in the future of personal robots in an open hardware and open software
framework.*

  [Ishikawa Oku Laboratory]: http://www.k2.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp/
  [this robot]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3nxjjztQKtY&feature=player_embedded
  [*da Vinci*]: http://www.intuitivesurgical.com/
  [Robonauts]: http://www.nasa.gov/mission_pages/station/main/r2_first_work.html
  [LEGO]: http://www.lego.com/en-us/CreateAndShare/Galleries/default.aspx?icmp=COUSCreateShareSL100Galleries
  [LEGO’s Mindstorm]: http://mindstorms.lego.com/en-us/Default.aspx
  [here]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EG-izyXfFHI
  [Willow Garage]: http://www.willowgarage.com/
