Title: FAQ
Date: 2011-08-29 18:10
Author: nskytlan
Slug: faq

**What is the OpenGov Initiative?**

In April 2010, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
released its Open Government Plan, in response to the White House
directive issued in December 2009, which required federal agencies to
take immediate, specific steps to achieve key milestones in
transparency, participation, and collaboration.  This directive
hardwired accountability into executive agencies, instructing each to
open its doors and data to the American people. More information about
the White House directive can be found at:

[www.whitehouse.gov/open][].  To learn more about NASA’s Open Government
Initiative, go to <http://www.nasa.gov/open>

**How does open.NASA support NASA’s mission?**

NASA’s founding legislation in 1958 instructed NASA to “…provide for the
widest practicable and appropriate dissemination of information…” The
principles of Open Government have been embedded in our operations for
50 plus years. We recognize that open government is a process rather
than a product, and have taken a continuous-learning approach.

**What is the scope of the content on open.NASA?**

The scope of open.NASA is related to Open Government at NASA.  The site
features stories highlighting the best examples of collaboration,
participation, and transparency from across the agency. Open Government
is the responsibility of every NASA employee, so if you are infusing
OpenGov values in what you are working on, we encourage you to write
about it!

**Who can blog on this new platform?**

The platform is open to anyone from the agency with a nasa.gov email
address, including both civil servants and contractors, with access to
NASA’s internal network.  If you do not have access to NASA's internal
network, you will not be able to contribute blog posts to open.NASA at
this time.

**I have a nasa.gov email address but am unable to access the internal
NASA network. Can I still contribute?**

If you are unable to access NASA’s internal network either while you are
onsite or by VPN, we unfortunately cannot authorize you to contribute to
the site at this time due to the NASA security policy.

**How do I request an account?**

The site uses NASA’s eAuth system. To get started visit
<http://open.nasa.gov/contribute>.

**Who moderates this site and what is the comment moderation policy?**

The Open Government team, within the Office of Chief Information Officer
(OCIO), and in coordination with the Office of Chief Financial Officer
(OCFO), manages the content on this site.  All content is moderated and
requires approval from the OpenGov team, including comments and posts,
as required by our agreement with senior management when launching the
site.  We have developed a community commenting policy to guide the
moderation efforts and encourage your feedback on them.  Although we do
not anticipate it, if there is a reason your content or comment needs to
be edited or moderated, we will make every effort to contact you in
order to resolve the issue.  Our goal is to encourage the community to
self-moderate the content on the site, and therefore we have
additionally installed a flagging feature so that you can flag comments
that are inappropriate.

**Do you allow guest posts on open.NASA?**

*Rarely*.  Because this is an official NASA website, we limit who can
contribute to those with a nasa.gov email address.  At \~20,000 people,
that’s quite a population of contributors to manage.  The open.NASA team
does cross post to other interesting articles online on occasion, so if
you have a thought you’d like to share on open.NASA, please tell us
about it.

**What is the difference between open.NASA and nasa.gov/open?**

The two sites are complimentary and meant to fully maximize both the OMB
direction per the Open Government Initiative as well as the dynamic
contributions from the NASA Open Government community.

Per OMB direction, the current home of the Open Government Initiative at
NASA is <http://www.nasa.gov/open/>.  The site, which is structured
according to NASA’s award-winning Open Government Plan, details the key
milestones for projects across the agency, features a status dashboard
to track our progress, and lists the official contact information for
the initiative.

open.NASA a new two-way communication blogging platform for NASA’s open
government community, cultivating transparency, participation, and
collaboration across the agency.   The site links to the Open Government
Plan and tracking dashboard in its main menu at the top of the page.

**What technology was used to build this site?**

The Wordpress 3.1 Content Management System (CMS) powers open.nasa.gov.
Wordpress is the most widely used open source CMS system in the world
with over 4 million domains running the software, which is nearly 8% of
all sites running a packaged CMS. In addition, over 18 million blogs are
hosted on Wordpress.com. Reference: (1)
[http][][://][http][trends][http][.][http][builtwith][http][.][http][com][http][/][http][cms][http][/][http][WordPress][http]
(2)
[http][1][://][1][en][1][.][1][wordpress][1][.][1][com][1][/][1][stats][1][/][1] 
Leveraging an open source package, such as Wordpress, is in line with
the objectives of the Open Government Directive. Within this office, the
utilization of open source software is a flagship initiative.

All technology used to build this site is also listed at
http://open.nasa.gov/credits

**Have the 3rd party plugins on the site been approved for use?**

Yes, the site mainly leverages 1) the Disqus commenting system to manage
comments and 2) Uservoice to collect ideas.  Both of these applications
have been approved for use by GSA and NASA.   See <http://www.apps.gov>
for more information.

**What are the future plans for the site?**

We built open.NASA because we believe in the values of the Open
Government Initiative.  open.NASA will continually evolve and improve in
functionality and usability as NASA moves forward and as the Open
Government team receives feedback. Our intent is to make open.NASA an
integral part of nasa.gov, but this will take time.

**What are the main activities of the NASA Open Government Initiative?**

NASA’s Open Government (v1) activities span 22 identified Agency
projects across the centers, and 3 flagship initiatives will take the
Initiative to a new level:

-   **Policy**: NASA is working to make open source software development
    more collaborative at NASA to benefit both the Agency and the
    public.
-   **Technology**: NASA Nebula, as the government’s first open-source
    cloud computing platform, offers an easier way for NASA scientists
    and researchers to share large, complex data sets with external
    partners and the public.
-   **Culture**: The creation of a new NASA Participatory Exploration
    Office will infuse more public participation into NASA’s mission.

Read the complete NASA Open Government Plan by visiting
<http://www.nasa.gov/open>

 

  [www.whitehouse.gov/open]: http://www.whitehouse.gov/open
  [http]: http://trends.builtwith.com/cms/WordPress
  [1]: http://en.wordpress.com/stats/
