Title: Telephone Replacement Strategy
Date: 2012-04-13 10:09
Author: Nick Skytland
Slug: telephone-replacement-strategy

The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) Johnson Space
Center (JSC) located in Houston, TX and White Sands Test Facility (WSTF)
located in Las Cruces, New Mexico is soliciting information for
replacing the Telephone System in the year 2014 timeframe.

NASA –JSC-WSTF is seeking capability statements/ideas on how to replace
an existing Private Branch Exchange (PBX) system supporting 15,000
handsets with utilizing a cost saving technologies that integrates with
smart phones from all interested parties.

No solicitation exists; therefore, do not request a copy of the
solicitation. If a solicitation is released it will be synopsized in
FedBizOpps and on the NASA Acquisition Internet Service. It is the
potential vendor’s responsibility to monitor these sites for the release
of any solicitation or synopsis.

[Ask a question about the NASA Telephone Replacement Strategy][]

**Background information**:

A. JSC has a PBX Siemens Electronic Switch (EWSD) Central Office (CO)
telephone infrastructure that supports approximately 15,000 telephones,
and has a combination of digital and analog circuits. The CO consists of
a host switch and three remote switches that interface with AT&T as the
external communications provider. There are a total of 437 Integrated
Services Digital Network (ISDN) lines to the host telephone switch at
JSC, 46 ISDN lines to a remote telephone switch at JSC that terminate in
Building 30, and 46 ISDN lines to a remote telephone switch that is
located at Ellington Field. Ellington Field is used by NASA to support
astronaut flight training and is located about 5.5 miles away from JSC.
The Siemens telephone switch also provides long distance services for
the center. There are 23 ISDN lines and 96 T1 connected to the Siemens
host telephone system.

There is an existing Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) deployment at
JSC with approximately 1500 Cisco VoIP handsets and licenses deployed,
which is currently connected to the Siemens telephone switch. The JSC
VoIP infrastructure includes 2 VoIP gateways with four Primary Rate
Interfaces (PRI) supporting them, two call mangers, Unity voicemail
server, Unified Cisco Contact Express (UCCX) (help desk/contact agent
service) server, Cisco Unified Application Environment (CUAE) (call
forward / capability to connect to external services to the telephone
system) server.

The JSC network has a highly redundant Core, Distribution and Access
Layer architecture. The data rates for the network include a
predominantly 1Gb backbone (with 10G portions, e.g. Data Center) and 100
Mb connections to end user devices. The access layer devices support
Power over Ethernet (POE) and end devices are connected using Cat5e or
better cabling. Also, there are 23 ISDN lines and one Cisco gateway
located at the Sonny Carter Test Facility (SCTF). SCTF is an astronaut
training facility located about 6 miles away from the Johnson Space
Center. There are approximately 100 facilities at the JSC site, which is
comprised of an inter mall area of 35 facilities. The remaining
facilities are in the outer areas within the site. The JSC Call Manager
also supports approximately 30 VoIP phones at WSTF.

B. The WSTF location has a Nortel Meridian/Option 61c PBX telephone
system and a Norstar Key system with three interconnected nodes and one
standalone node. Of the three interconnected nodes, two reside on the
WSTF main campus and one resides at the White Sands Space Harbor (WSSH)
located on the White Sands Missile Range (WSMR). WSTF is supported by
Century Link as their external communication provider. There are
approximately 860 telephones, modems and sensors. The capacities of the
2 WSTF campus PBXs are as following: Node 1—792 digital and 512 analog
lines; Node 2—576 digital and 160 analog line. The configuration of
T1/FTS lines equates to 24 inbound/outbound, 24 outbound only and 24
long distances. The trunking capacities to the remote sites are 48
trunks from Node 1 to Node 2, and 72 trunks from Node 2 to WSSH. The one
standalone node is located at the El Paso Hangar Forward Operations
Facility, and it has a Nortel Norstar Key System and supports 28 phones.
External communications to the El Paso Hanger are provided by AT&T which
include copper trunks, four inbound DID and six outbound.

Vendor(s) are encouraged to submit informational proposals on all of the
key areas listed below.

1.  Provide an approach for total replacement of the current PBX based
    telephone (circuit switch technology) systems at JSC and WSTF with
    an implementation of a telephone (packet switch technology) system
    (15,000 handsets).
2.  Provide a telephony replacement system for JSC and NASA that can
    scale to a maximum of 65,000 handsets.
3.  Provide an approach that supports a diverse set of end user device
    technologies which incorporate features such as smart-phone
    integration, unified communication, voicemail-to-email,
    email-to-voicemail, video conferencing, instant messaging,
    smart-phone and/or and 802.11x capable mobile devices such as, the
    Apple iPod Touch, Cellular (mobile device), or PC-based soft-phone.
4.  Provide an outsourced approach (e.g. Cloud based approach) for up to
    65,000 users based upon a dynamically scalable architecture. Any
    proposal should show cost for a minimum of 15,000 handsets, up to a
    maximum of 65,000 handsets.
5.  NASA/JSC is open to any other approaches the vendor(s) may offer.
    These may include alternate financing models, fully outsourced
    models, etc.
6.  Provide an approach that is capable of supporting a distributed E911
    capability that allows for local emergency dispatch.

Vendor(s) comply with Section 508 Program Need, Deliverable
Requirements-Technical standards from 36 CFR part 1194 Subpart B,
Evaluation Factors, and Acceptance Criteria - Requirements for
accessibility based on Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29
U.S.C. 794d) are determined to be relevant for the following program
need to support Telephone Services.

Interested vendor(s) having the required specialized capabilities to
meet the above requirement should submit a capability statement of not
to exceed 30 pages indicating the ability to perform all aspects of the
effort described herein. The responses shall be in Word and or Portable
Data Format (PDF) readable by Microsoft Office and or Adobe Acrobat
software.

Please advise if the requirement is considered to be a commercial or
commercial-type product. A commercial item is defined in FAR 2.101.

This Request for Information (RFI) is for information and planning
purposes and is not to be construed as a commitment by the Government
nor will the Government pay for information solicited. Respondents will
not be notified of the results of the evaluation. The initial planning
framework contained in this request for information is subject to change
as the proposed initiative is formulated. Furthermore, the responses may
be utilized to create a NASA Agency wide strategy for future
implementation of communication services to support end users.

This data will not be shared outside the Government. The Government may
use this data to refine requirements. Data that is submitted as part of
Industry’s response that is marked “Proprietary” will not be reviewed.
The Government will protect all proprietary information. Responses that
are received will not be returned, and will be disposed of after reviews
of the responses are completed. NASA will not reimburse or otherwise
compensate for any costs associated with the submission of information.
NASA will utilize information received from this RFI to assist in
planning for research and development activities under the proposed
Telephone Replacement Systems Initiative. NASA/JSC and WSTF reserves the
right to use any idea(s) that the vendor(s) provide.

All responses shall be submitted to COL Terry Lindsey at
terry.k.lindsey@nasa.gov respectively, no later than June 11, 2012, 4:00
PM local time. Please reference NNJ12BJ2001L in any response. Any
referenced notes or questions may also be posted at the following URL
link http://open.nasa.gov/telephone-replacement-strategy.

[Ask a question about the NASA Telephone Replacement Strategy][]

  [Ask a question about the NASA Telephone Replacement Strategy]: http://nasa.uservoice.com/forums/161797-nasa-telephone-replacement-strategy
